“What's the number?”
                                        LACK
   The words dig their claws into my new vocal cords an
 My diction is predictably poor, as it always is during th
 of the voice is apparent despite the mumbled, sandpape
 latest sex is female. This much I know in the first few sec
 for certain soon enough, once motion is mine again. An
    The slab is hard. Nothing more than frigid metal wit
  accommodations for a corp dollhouse. The chill seeps
    A cortical cruncher looms over me, waving his welco
  pupils. His smug, bored face speaks: “Consciousness c
  have made it obvious that I am back, but the guy is
  banks like their employees paralyzed by obedience, un
   again. “What's the number?”
     “March 11.”
     “How many after the Fall?”
     “Are you for real?”

      I am paranoid. Yes. I need to know the

     bank slab. Paranoia is just one of the p

       I try to snag the data from my new sleeve's mesh in
    a sleeve tech for the year is always humiliating. Ma
    definitely extenuating, so I press him. Hard.
       “Answer the fucking question.”
        The corp sloth gives me the lunatic eye before he
       “Uh ... 10 AF. You haven't been gone that long. Yo
        He scans his entoptics for the info.
       “ ... 14 days, 7 hours ago.”
         It takes a second to sink in, but when it does, it st
      me. Two weeks. Gone. Completely wiped from my
      in another morph. There was a mission and it led
      to retrieve the cortical stack off the corpse so I co
      chose to swipe that time from me. Honestly, thoug
       bouncing around out there, doing who knows w
       selves traipsing all over, but my ego is in check. O
           Shit. My brain is wandering off into morose ter
       resleeve. I need a physical context. Something tan
        of my eyes, arms feeling like two-ton sacks of ro
        scarred and misshapen. Obviously the work of m
        flesh. Yep. A well-worn fury morph. You get what
        for. Why do I do it? As far as the org is concern
         tossed into the recycling bin when I snap in half.
         too intense, until the files get too corrupt, until
         some other sap will step in to preserve transhuma
          like a Firewall propaganda tweet! My arms weak
          yet. A few more minutes with nothing but my th
             On his way out of the recovery bay, the cort
           your hurry?” he says. “Just relax, willya? You co
           yourself up. They don't pay me enough to baby
           melancholy returns.
              What experiences are no longer a part of my c
            true beauty? Fall in love? Have an epiphany? S
            version of me, is gone. The new me, lying on t
            hollows out from the weight of the loss.
 nk themselves up and out of my parched throat.
rst few minutes following a resleeve. The pitch
ur of the words. Definitely a biomorph and my
ds. The model eludes me right now, but I'll know
 er fury morph is my first guess.
 sp white synth-slick wrapped around it. Typical
 ugh my skin and wraps around my bones.
back beam side to side, occasionally catching my
rmed.” The beam clicks off. My question should
ave to procedure. They all are. Corporate body
e to think for themselves. I mumble the question




ear every time I return upon a body

gues transhumanity faces these days.

s before opening my mouth again. No luck. Asking
me feel like an amateur, but the circumstances are


wers.
 ast backup ... “



 . It never ceases to shock when time slips away from
tence. Two weeks ago, there was another me, sleeved
 my death. That is all I know. Either Firewall failed
  retain those two weeks, or the fuckers deliberately
 oth possibilities are preferable to having another self
 the-fuck. Some t-humies get off on having multiple
 ava is enough misery to unleash on the ‘verse.
 ry; always does during the first moments following a
e to focus my attention on. I bring my hands in front
  The fingers are thin and long; the knuckles callused,
 y thrown punches, fists connecting with jaws, metal,
u pay for, I suppose; or what Firewall is willing to pay
 I'm nothing more than a cheap precision instrument,
ere will always be more of me, until the horrors prove
now too much and Firewall decides to wipe me, then
 . Preserve transhumanity. Fantastic. Now I'm babbling
 and flop back to my sides. The strength just isn't there
 hts.
ncher laughs at my feeble attempt at motion. “What's
  se onto the floor, you're gonna stay there until you get
newbies.” His flippancy doesn't help my mood and the

ciousness? Perhaps the thrill of a lifetime. Did I discover
 a life? I'll never know. Those memories, that life, that
slab, was never shaped by those experiences. My chest
