“What's the number?”
                                       LACK
   The words dig their claws into my new vocal cords and yank themselves up and out of my parched throat.
 My diction is predictably poor, as it always is during the first few minutes following a resleeve. The pitch
 of the voice is apparent despite the mumbled, sandpaper slur of the words. Definitely a biomorph and my
 latest sex is female. This much I know in the first few seconds. The model eludes me right now, but I'll know
 for certain soon enough, once motion is mine again. Another fury morph is my first guess.
    The slab is hard. Nothing more than frigid metal with crisp white synth-slick wrapped around it. Typical
  accommodations for a corp dollhouse. The chill seeps through my skin and wraps around my bones.
    A cortical cruncher looms over me, waving his welcome-back beam side to side, occasionally catching my
  pupils. His smug, bored face speaks: “Consciousness confirmed.” The beam clicks off. My question should
  have made it obvious that I am back, but the guy is a slave to procedure. They all are. Corporate body
  banks like their employees paralyzed by obedience, unable to think for themselves. I mumble the question
   again. “What's the number?”
     “March 11.”
     “How many after the Fall?”
     “Are you for real?”

      I am paranoid. Yes. I need to know the year every time I return upon a body

     bank slab. Paranoia is just one of the plagues transhumanity faces these days.

       I try to snag the data from my new sleeve's mesh inserts before opening my mouth again. No luck. Asking
    a sleeve tech for the year is always humiliating. Makes me feel like an amateur, but the circumstances are
    definitely extenuating, so I press him. Hard.
       “Answer the fucking question.”
        The corp sloth gives me the lunatic eye before he answers.
       “Uh ... 10 AF. You haven't been gone that long. Your last backup ... “
        He scans his entoptics for the info.
       “ ... 14 days, 7 hours ago.”
         It takes a second to sink in, but when it does, it stings. It never ceases to shock when time slips away from
      me. Two weeks. Gone. Completely wiped from my existence. Two weeks ago, there was another me, sleeved
      in another morph. There was a mission and it led to my death. That is all I know. Either Firewall failed
      to retrieve the cortical stack off the corpse so I could retain those two weeks, or the fuckers deliberately
      chose to swipe that time from me. Honestly, though, both possibilities are preferable to having another self
       bouncing around out there, doing who knows what-the-fuck. Some t-humies get off on having multiple
       selves traipsing all over, but my ego is in check. One Sava is enough misery to unleash on the ‘verse.
           Shit. My brain is wandering off into morose territory; always does during the first moments following a
       resleeve. I need a physical context. Something tangible to focus my attention on. I bring my hands in front
        of my eyes, arms feeling like two-ton sacks of rocks. The fingers are thin and long; the knuckles callused,
        scarred and misshapen. Obviously the work of many thrown punches, fists connecting with jaws, metal,
        flesh. Yep. A well-worn fury morph. You get what you pay for, I suppose; or what Firewall is willing to pay
        for. Why do I do it? As far as the org is concerned, I'm nothing more than a cheap precision instrument,
         tossed into the recycling bin when I snap in half. There will always be more of me, until the horrors prove
         too intense, until the files get too corrupt, until I know too much and Firewall decides to wipe me, then
         some other sap will step in to preserve transhumanity. Preserve transhumanity. Fantastic. Now I'm babbling
          like a Firewall propaganda tweet! My arms weaken and flop back to my sides. The strength just isn't there
          yet. A few more minutes with nothing but my thoughts.
             On his way out of the recovery bay, the cort cruncher laughs at my feeble attempt at motion. “What's
           your hurry?” he says. “Just relax, willya? You collapse onto the floor, you're gonna stay there until you get
           yourself up. They don't pay me enough to babysit newbies.” His flippancy doesn't help my mood and the
           melancholy returns.
              What experiences are no longer a part of my consciousness? Perhaps the thrill of a lifetime. Did I discover
            true beauty? Fall in love? Have an epiphany? Save a life? I'll never know. Those memories, that life, that
            version of me, is gone. The new me, lying on this slab, was never shaped by those experiences. My chest
            hollows out from the weight of the loss.
