   I gotta shift the thought process.
   Fuck it. Maybe there was no joy, no revelations. It
was a shit two weeks. I'm certain of it. I was bored
out of my mind. Better yet, broken and suffering
from an epic heartache. My demise was meaningless.
I OD'd on kick, flopping on the floor in a pathetic
speed-addled frenzy till my heart exploded. I was
gutted by some low-life scumborn in a back station
corridor over some lo-rez black market XP. I'm glad
the time was wiped. Ecstatic, in fact. Fuck it. Fuck
them. I don't need those two weeks.
   But these thoughts are lies. I need those two weeks.
I don't feel whole without them. Hell, I feel incom-
plete if even an hour is sacrificed. I have to know.
   Someone knows what occurred. No doubt. Prob-
ably a Firewall proxy, Jesper most likely. He was my
connect this go round. I remember that much. The
wipe would have been his call. And proxies have a
quick trigger finger when it comes to wiping us sen-
tinels. Even a hard-earned rep score can't save my
memories when Firewall deems the results of a mis-
sion too sensitive for an outer circle thug like myself
to possess. As long as the fucking job gets done. As
long as transhumanity perseveres.
   What a shit deal.
   How did my life, my lives, come to this? Always in
the hands of another.
  Again, the dread, the paranoia. I gotta shake this
off. I have to give the org the benefit of the doubt.
I've been a sentinel for decades. I like to think I've
saved millions of lives, but I'm just not sure.
   Do I trust the org? No. But there is an understand-
ing, a degree of respect. Though as the years continue
to race by, and the gaps grow longer and more fre-
quent, I'm beginning to doubt Firewall's commitment
to my preservation.
   Suddenly, my muse stirs, breaking my dark
reverie. Several entoptic displays appear in
                                                            ■ SAVA'S MUSE ■




my field of vision, cycling through diagnostic
routines as my mesh inserts finally come online.
Careza's familiar feminine voice enters my mind.
   [Welcome back, Sava.]
   The sound is soothing; like being cradled by my
mother, or embraced by a lover. The harmonic
upgrade was a worthwhile investment. Careza
has learned to use it well. I rarely think of my
muse as an AI. It is my only true friend these
days. I wonder if it shares the sentiment. I've never
shot the thought its way. I keep it to myself. I'm afraid
of what the response might be.
   Hey Careza. Glad to be back.
   [You could use a drink, I suspect.]
  You know me too well, Car. Better than I know
myself.
   [Hospitality now has the request. Wait time, approximately
ten minutes.]
   Thanks. Careza enjoys our conversations when
my brain has a slight buzz. It is always trying to get
me drunk.
   [You're welcome, Sava. Before you ask, it's been two weeks.
I don't have any information on what happened following our
last resleeve. Currently, we are in lunar orbit aboard Selardi IV.
We are outfitted in a CoreCorp-brand fury morph with minor
enhancements. They will be online shortly. I am pleased to
report the Titanians were victorious and won the Cup.]
   Damnit. Would have made a killing on that one.
What did the odds go off at? But before Careza can
dig up the info, I shut down the operation. Wait. No.
I don't want to know. It'll only irritate me more. A
nervous energy starts to itch my entire system and a
thick familiar taste begins to coat my tongue. I need
a cigarette.
   [Yes. I know. The previous occupant of this morph was a
heavy smoker. The habit might be difficult to shake this time.]
   This resleeve just keeps getting better by the minute.
I hate smoking. Booze, fine. I can handle my alcohol,
but smoking always makes me feel like shit. Every
time I get sleeved in a morph with the addiction, I
struggle to kick it. Careza continues with her report
as I try to retain my sanity in the face of an intense
nicotine craving.
   [@-rep remains intact.]
   Finally some good news. At least I didn't piss off
any allies in the past 2 weeks.
   [Indeed. Are you in the right frame of mind for an update
on Rati?]
   Rati is my passion. The lover I hold above all others.
She disappeared on me two years ago. No explanation.
The sting still lingers.
   Let's skip the update for now, Careza.
   [Understood.]
   Run a newsfeed scan. Check for any major incidents
in the past 2 weeks. Maybe there's a clue as to what
we may have been up to.
   As Careza runs the scan and continues her standard
   sitrep, I shift my attention to the new sleeve. The
     strength to stand is finally there. I push the morph
      up and swing the feet onto the floor. Spasms
        shoot through every muscle. New morphs
        always take a bit of time in which to acclimate.
        Luckily, I'm familiar with the CoreCorp fury,
        sleeved it a few times in the past. This one feels
        like an old pair of shoes, bit worn and abused,
       but able to pound the pavement if need be. The
      left ankle is a bit tender. I hold it up a bit to get
     a look. Bit swollen. Definitely not new sleeve dys-
   morphia. Probably a nagging injury. Again, a pain
in the ass, but you get what you pay for, I suppose.
The nanotat encircling the right bicep is rude and ob-
noxious, even by scum standards—an entire slitheroid
entering the genitals of a female pleasure pod, fully
animated. Class act, whoever opted to etch that upon
the morph. I hate identifying marks, but again, if you
can't afford a clean morph, you take what you can get.
   I slide off the table, managing not to fall over in the
process, and gingerly test the ankle. Sore, but it isn't
going to snap off.
   Put in a request for a patch, left ankle. Bute should
be fine.
