   [Phenylbutazone. On it's way. And the cocktail will be
 here in approximately 30 seconds. Nothing unusual on the
 newsfeed scan.]
   Figures.

     I plod over to the full-length mirror,

 standard issue in resleeve waking cham-

  bers, and drop the sheet to take a look

at the new me. I spy the cortical cruncher

  lingering in the doorway, my cocktail in

 his hand, giving my body an appreciative

          look. I don't recognize myself.

“Hand me my drink please.” I reach out my hand in
 his direction without even acknowledging his presence.
 He steps into the room, too close to me, and slips the
 drink into my hand. His breath smells like some sort
 of sour sausage.
   “Not too bad under the sheet, are you?” he says. “I
 took a peek earlier, but I must say, the slab didn't do
you justice. On your feet, the curves really pop. Your
 face isn't much to look at, but that rack is ... ”
    I cut him off before I vomit bile into my mouth. “It's
 exquisite. I know. Now shut up and back off before
 I rip the skin off your face and slap you silly with it.”
 He gets the message and slinks from the room.
    It is a nice rack.
    [If nice is defined by proportion, then I would say yes.]
    AIs, always so formal.
    [You're approximately 4 centimeters taller than your usual
 proprieception allows for, so watch your head.]
    Thanks for the heads up.
    [That was awful.]
    Yeah. Yeah. I know. A smile finds its way onto my
 face as the banter with my muse lightens my mood.
 Looking in the mirror, I try to broaden the smile, to
 get a better sense of my new face. I show some teeth.
 Nicotine stains all over them. I take a long sip from
 my cocktail, swish the alcohol around a bit. I can feel
 my blood respond instantly to the sauce. I close my
 eyes and let out a sigh. Just a few moments of peace
 is all I ask.
    [We have a guest, Sava.] Damnit. No such luck.
    Who?
    [Our last Firewall proxy, Jesper, has sent a beta-level fork of
 himself. It is rather impatient to speak with you.]
    Connect him.
    They just cannot leave me alone, can they? Offi-
 cially, Firewall doesn't even exist. It's because of Rati
 that they got their tentacles wrapped all around me,
 through me. The whole mess on Mars. That's where
 it all started. The last time I saw Rati. All that knowl-
 edge they allowed me to retain. But why? Until that
 day, I had never realized just how scary the universe
truly was. No, not scary. Horrific. No other word for
something so vast, so uncaring. Transhumanity could
be wiped out completely and it would all just con-
tinue on as before. Horrific. No other way to explain
the feeling you have when you come face to face with
things truly beyond comprehension. Hell, no other
term could encapsulate transhumanity's actions to-
wards each other—much less what other beings lurk-
ing in the void have in store for us. Perhaps that was
why. To teach me a lesson. To make certain I would
never forget, so I would never cease assisting
the org, because even the briefest glimpse of

                                                  S AVA' S C O N TA C T @ F I R E WA L L
what is actually out there is enough.
   Jesper's fork materializes in my field of
                                                                                                                       ■ JESPER ■
                                                                                           F I R E WA L L P R O X Y;
vision.
   [Welcome back, Sava.]
   Fuck off, Jesper. You know I hate
waking up with lack.
   [Sorry. Nothing I could do.] His expression
is serious and concerned, but his kinesics
indicate he is as calm as can be. What an
act! Fucking proxies never panic. They
hold all the cards and it's never their minds
that are on the line.
   Yeah. Right. Get to the point. You don't have me
sleeved in a combat morph to get some downtime, so
you must have something serious lined up. Are Berk,
Pivo, and Sarlo here?
   [Yes, they have been resleeved in the same facility.]
   At least my team is with me. People I could count
on. To a certain degree.
   All right. What are the details?




Pivo gripped the smooth outer surface of the station
with all eight arms. Nano-magnetics at the tips of
his vacsuit arms were the only difference between a
secure hold and an endless drift into the depths of
space. He peered up through his faceplate at the dark
orb above him.
   Earth.
   His eyes locked on an expanse of dead black ocean
through the ominous clouds. Pivo longed to swim in
those ancient depths. Born and bred for space, he had
never once immersed himself in the former ecological
niche of his kind. Odds were against his ever taking
a plunge into the salty waters of an Earth ocean. The
planet was now a plagued death trap. A wasteland of
skeletal forms.
   He imagined a time before the Fall, when his ances-
tors thrust through blue waters and slipped effortless-
ly through mazes of coral, or gently floated along with
the current, not bothered by the burden of sapience.
Perhaps octopi still survived beneath the black waters
of the present, eking out a brief existence, biding their
time, keeping the species true and alive until the Earth
could be reclaimed, and Pivo would join them on that
glorious day, abandoning knowledge altogether, and
returning to the ways of instinct.
