  Vacsuit sensors interrupted Pivo's fanta-




                                                 FIREWALL AGENT; COVERT OPS
sy, detecting a laser light that bathed his




                                                    SPECIALIST; FURY MORPH
form—contact from Sava by line-of-sight




                                                                              ■ SAVA ■
laser link. It was the preferred method of
communication when a mission required
discretion. Pivo's muse processed the mes-
sage, and Sava's voice entered his head.
   [Something wrong? Why'd you stop
moving?]
   [Just enjoying the view,] Pivo beamed back.
    [Enjoy it on the way down, for hours if you
want. Get inside the station before one of the
sentry bots finds us.]
                                                 FIREWALL AGENT; NANOTECH
                                                   SPECIALIST; OCTOMORPH
   Pivo didn't bother to respond. There
was no arguing with Sava. No use in de-                                       ■ PIVO ■
fending your actions. Pivo began crawling
along the shell of the station again. The
station itself was tethered to the end of a
long, black, carbon nanotube cable that
stretched all the way down to the planet's
surface—the sole surviving space elevator.
   Pivo located the breach, a thin scar in
the station's metallic hull, the result of an
internal explosion responsible for the station's
demise during the Fall. The breach was exactly where
Sava said it would be and the description of its size
was dead-on: a gap barely large enough for a human
infant to slip through. According to Sava, years ago,
the self-repairing nanosystems operating in the hull's
metal had malfunctioned before the breach had been
fully repaired. The level of mission details Sava man-
aged to extract from Firewall was scary sometimes.
Paranoia bloomed for a moment, but he quickly dis-
missed his suspicion, compressed his cephalopod form,
and squeezed his body through the breach.
   In blackness, Pivo activated his infrared emitter,
casting the room in a light outside the normal visual
spectrum. The interior of the lifeless station became
visible to his enhanced eyes in the eerie altered colors
of infrared. Pivo almost preferred the dark. Ice crys-
tals glittered from every surface, the reult of flash
frozen moisture in the long-absent atmosphere. Frigid
clumps of human remains floated alongside chunks of
hull metal in a macabre zero-gravity ballet. Pivo float-
ed through the wreckage and the gore, lightly tapping
aside metal or flesh to clear a path deeper into the
room. A female head drifted slowly by, the face frozen
in a gaping silent scream. An intact cortical stack
dangled from the severed neck. For a second, Pivo
considered snatching the stack, but he was not here to
retrieve lost souls. Instead, he placed two of his arms
upon the top of the head and pushed it beneath him,
towards the floor. Like so many others lost during the
Fall, this person would remain forgotten here.
   Pivo made it to the airlock without incident, but
he knew his luck would run dry eventually. A run-in
with hypercorp guardians on a derelict station was
unavoidable. Sensors may have already detected his
presence. It was only a matter of time before bots
converged on his position. He just hoped that when
it occurred (and it most certainly would), it would
happen after he had opened up the airlock and the
rest of the team was inside the station.
   The airlock had been welded shut from the inside.
Pivo was prepared for this eventuality, but it made his
detection by guardian bots a certainty. He composed
himself for a few seconds, focused on the task at hand,
then fired up the plasma torch built into one of his
vacsuit arms. A sizzling hiss and a harsh hot blue glare
filled the room. Seconds were now his most precious
possession.
    He was almost through the inner door when his
muse pinged him with a warning from the passive
teraherz sensor. An object was moving towards Pivo's
position rapidly, now only twenty meters away. A
sentry bot would be upon him in soon.
    [Almost through the first door,] Pivo transmitted calmly,
even though it took every ounce of his will to keep
the torch steady. [I have company. Be ready.]
    [Copy that,] Sava replied.
   Finally, Pivo cut through the seal. The octomorph
slithered four arms through the still smoldering sliced
metal, and with a strained yank, pulled the door from
the frame. The door slowly floated away into the
chamber, the edges rapidly cooling. The interior air-
lock door was not welded shut. With a vocal sigh of
relief, all eight of Pivo's arms began a frenzied assault
upon the airlock door's manual controls.
    [Few more seconds. Just a few more seconds.] But the
seconds had expired.
    In his 360-degree field of vision, Pivo could see the
security bot thrust into view behind him. The bot un-
loaded its weapons immediately, the shots ricocheting
off the floating airlock door. The bot advanced on the
door, and with a furious swat knocked the obstruc-
tion aside. It clanged upon the crystalline surface of
the wall. Just as Pivo pulled the last lever to release
the airlock door, blazing plasma fire engulfed him.




Sava had instructed Careza to surge the neurochem
the instant the airlock portal was open. The muse
did not fail to deliver. In what seemed like an eternal
slow-mo to Sava's charged brain, the airlock door
swung open into the station, aided by a thudding steel
leg kick courtesy of Berk, the team's muscle. With a
flash of thought, Sava's targeting radar snapped up an
entoptic display and locked on two targets: Pivo and
a sentry bot. The robotic guard dog was already level-
ing its weapons, but Sava was faster. Retinal-searing
plasma fire erupted from Sava's weapon, singeing
one of Pivo's arms and slamming the sentry back. A
second shot punched through the bot's armored cara-
pace, melting critical components within, rendering
the bot a useless pile of fused scrap metal.
   Sava moved quickly past the cursing octomorph
and unloaded two more shots into the smoking bot.
   [We're clear,] Sava transmitted. [One down, but there is
always more. Count on it. Pivo, you shiny?]
