   [You scorched my breeding arm, puta.] Pivo shot back
with clear agitation rumbling in the harmonics.
   [You rather I leave you to the bot next time?] Sava turned
to Sarlo. [Sarlo, get in here and find the console you need.
Berk, we're going to need to set up defensive positions, to
give hacker boy here time to crunch his bits.]
   Pivo cut through his vacsuit and detached his dam-
aged arm, cursing Sava under his breath as the vacsuit
rapidly repaired itself and sealed the gap.
   [Hey. Don't worry, Pivo. You've got seven more. And besides,
you don't really strike me as the breeding type anyway.] Sava
relished giving Pivo a hard time. It was one of the true
joys in life.
   Pushing off from one wall to the next, Sarlo moved
along the chamber with ease and grace. His neotenic
morph was slighter and even more diminutive than
the average human child sleeve, completely augment-
ed and customized to match his “preferences.” He had
paid a fortune for it. The others never understood
Sarlo's penchant for juvenile human sleeves, so much
so that he always kicked in his own credits to ensure
an augmented neotenic resleeve, even when Firewall
was footing the bill. They also didn't know where his
seemingly endless supply of personal funds came from,
nor did they want to. As long as he got the job done.
   Two minidrones followed after Sarlo, lighting
the area in infrared and actively scanning
on other wavelengths. [This way,] he said,
                                                          FIREWALL AGENT; HACKER;




transmitting an entoptic map to each team
                                                                                     ■ SARLO ■
                                                              NEOTENIC MORPH




member's overlay. [It's not far, a hundred
meters or so.] A highlighted route appeared on
the map.
   Sava and Pivo followed closely behind
Sarlo, while Berk struggled to keep pace in
her armored gynoid shell.
   [Keep up, flatlander. We'll be down the gravity
well soon enough,] Sava beamed to Berk.
   [Not soon enough for me,] Berk replied.
   The abandoned station was eerily quiet.
Signs of long-forgotten violence and desper-
                                                          FIREWALL AGENT; SECURITY




ation lingered everywhere. Floating debris.
                                                              SPECIALIST; SYNTH


                                                                                     ■ BERK ■




Ruptured and frozen bodies. Scorch marks
and twisted metal. Death owned this place.
   When the team reached the control station,
Sava and Berk took up defensive positions
in the corridor while Sarlo and Pivo went to
work on the station's dormant systems.
    [I'll be damned! The mission spec was actually
right. The station systems are active but dormant.
Whomever's guarding this place didn't wreck the
systems, they left open the possibility that the space eleva-
tor could be activated again.] Sarlo gleefully began his
procedures to hack the system.
   [Who the fuck would want to risk going down to that ball
of ash?] Berk piped in.
   Pivo waved one of his arms in agitation. [Need I
remind you that some of us happen to think that reclaiming
our home planet is a good idea?]
   [Reactionary thinking, if you ask me.] Berk replied.
[Shrugging off all of our old nation-state loyalties is one of
the best steps transhumanity has ever made. Leave reveling
in the glories of the past to the bio-cons. I'll take a future
where we step boldly outward into space, thank you much.]
    [Let's cut the politics.] Sava pointed at Berk. [You're
an anarchist, I get it.] Then Sava pointed at Pivo. [And
you're on a reclamation kick. Fine.] But Sava's rant was
interrupted by half a dozen fast moving dots upon
the team's entoptic radars. [Incoming pings. Sarlo, you
in yet?]
    [Working on it. Fuck. Fuck. Shit.] Sarlo's childish voice
sounded petulant.
    [Work faster. If these bots have heavy ordnance, we're
screwed.] Sava and Berk both unloaded suppression
fire down their respective stretches of corridor before
the bots even made it to the corners. The bots halted
their approach momentarily, taking cover just around
the bend. More bots began to appear on the radar,
moving towards the position of the first responders.
    [We're running out of time, Sar! More bots gathering!]
Sava unloaded another round of suppression at the
bend. Berk kept her weapon quiet, waiting for a bot
to make a move into the corridor before lighting it up,
but the bots remained put. More gathered, and even
more appeared on radar, moving to the same position.
    [They're gonna be all over us any second now!]
    [Consider this a gift, ladies and gents ... ] And with a
final operation, Sarlo seized control of the station's
entire security system.
     Suddenly, one of the bots turned on the others.
  Another soon joined it. In a matter of seconds,
   fumes and debris came drifting down the corridor
   as all-out warfare broke out between the bots. Sava
   and Berk lowered their weapons and admired the
   sounds of Sarlo's handiwork.
      [Damn, Sar! I guess that is why you are one of the best
 hackers in the system!]
    [Applause, applause, ya waify freak!]
    [When you've got cutting edge-exploits courtesy of the
leet coding AGIs on Extropia, there's not a whole lot you can't
 do.] Sarlo delivered the line with a calm harmonic, but
  Sava was watching his kinesics, and they were off the
  charts. The neotenic's little heart was beating like a
   drum roll. Sava opted not to bust his furless balls
   about it, and instead let Sarlo have his moment in
   the sun. This had been a “close one,” and another
  close one might not end up in their favor.
     Sava allowed a few seconds of relieved silence
before getting the team back to business. [Sarlo. How
soon till the elevator is active?]




Pivo stuck to the portal, watching as they descended
below the soot-filled layer of clouds and the Earth
below came into view. They were in the atmosphere
now, descending on a taut beanstalk stretched be-
tween the Earth and station above, a massive feat of
engineering built from carbon nanotubes. The shuttle
car crawled down the elevator cable, bringing them
closer and closer to the ruined planet.
