   Earth's atmosphere was now choked with a thick
dust, the color of rust. The winds whipped over the
planet's surface with breakneck velocity, swirling
dangerously in certain pockets. The world's weather
systems had been irretrievably ravaged by the Fall,
when transhumanity had seemingly gone to war with
a group of rogue AIs known as the TITANs. Bombs,
raging fires, chemical attacks, biowar plagues, vora-
cious nanoswarms—even nukes—had taken their toll.
It was now an inhospitable place, gripped by nuclear
winter. Some of the clouds were formed into unusual
shapes, defying the high winds, even seeming to writhe
as they moved—the thriving descendents of self-rep-
licating airborne nanoswarms, Pivo suspected. Who
knew what other monstrosities waited for them below,
evolved from the remnants of AI war machines?
   The Earth was off-limits now. Abandoned to the
enemy. Though the TITANs were presumed to be
long gone, escaping the solar system via secretly-con-
structed wormholes gates, taking millions of forcibly
uploaded transhuman minds with them—they had left
many of their tools and weapons behind. Likewise,
some of the weapons transhumanity had unleashed
on the AIs—and, quite often, themselves—had taken
on a life of their own. So Earth had been abandoned
and interdicted, with hypercorp killsats laced into
orbit to shoot down anything that attempted to leave
or land on the planet's surface.
   As a reclaimer, Pivo was part of a small but vocal
faction that advocated a return to Earth. There was
still hope for the planet, they believed. It had always
perservered, and this was no time to give up on it.
Earth needed to be cleansed and terraformed, resusci-
tating transhumanity's home. But the reclamers were
a minority. To most survivors of the Fall, the Earth
held too many horrible memories. Lives ruined. Loved
ones lost. Their own deaths. It was a monument to
transhumanity's arrogance and mistakes, a grim
reminder that they were not above destroying them-
selves despite all of their advances and technology, or
perhaps because of them.
   This didn't prevent some from trying, of course.
Scavengers still raided the planet's ruins, retrieving
long-lost treasures, cultural artifacts, or even the
preserved mind-states of those who failed to escape.
Some reclaimers had initiated their own secret mis-
sions, intending to establish a basecamp from which
they would begin operating their own reclamation
projects. Most were never heard from again.
   The team of four rested and prepared equipment
in the shuttle's large open lounge, Sava and Sarlo
in a cramped inflatable survival bubble so the bio-
morphs could escape the confines of their vacsuits
for a while. Pivo elected to remain outside the
bubble and in the vacsuit. Close confines with Sava
during the descent did not sound pleasant to him.
The walls of the lounge were smeared with decades-
old blood, now frozen into a crystalline brown in
the depressurized cabin. Whoever the last passengers
were to ride this shuttle, fleeing the doomed Earth,
must have set violently upon each other, fueled by
madness or despair.
   [I wonder what it was like.] Sarlo tossed the thought
out to the group.
   [What?] Pivo replied.
   Sava quickly jumped in and put an end to the dis-
cussion Sarlo was yearning to start. [Quit with the phi-
losophizing and the dramatizing. You know I cannot stand that
shit.] Sava tried desperately to maintain order and an
air of gruff detachment. It was too easy to let the brain
wander off into the past and the fate of the millions
who perished during the Fall. To counter this, Sava
always resorted to the diatribe. [Listen. We all know the
mission specs. We're locating someone. A courier. Most likely
a corpse. Last known position while alive was the base sta-
tion we will drop into when this ride stops. Mount Kilimanjaro.
Which, according to quite reliable sources, was once overrun
by killbots, which are most likely still in the vicinity.] Sava
paused for dramatic effect before continuing. [We
retrieve something from the courier. What, we don't fucking
know. Only that it is quite valuable to the org. We stick to what
we know. I don't want to hear any more bullshit “what ifs”
and “I wonders.” If your thoughts are anywhere other than
the mission, keep them to yourself. I don't want to hear them.]
And with that declaration, the rest of the journey to
the Kilimanjaro station was in silence, each confined
to their own thoughts, not a single ping between them.




The shuttle rattled to a stop inside the dark cavern-
ous hangar. At one time, the Kilimanjaro hangar was
the busiest Earth-to-space station port in the world,
servicing millions of customers annually. Now, as
Pivo clung to a shuttle window and stared out into
the black emptiness of the hangar, it seemed as if the
place was a soulless vacuum.
   [Ready when you are.] Sarlo pinged Sava, poised
to hack open the shuttle door and allow the stale
dust-choked air of Earth to waft over the team. Sava
nodded to Sarlo and the shuttle door slid open with
a rush of decompression. A blinding red-gray dust
blasted into the shuttle from the hangar and coated
the shuttle interior almost immediately.
   Sava's first step into the Kilimanjaro hangar landed
firmly onto the brittle ribcage of a child's skeleton.
The bones snapped into splinters and powder with a
crunch. The floor surrounding the shuttle airlock was
carpeted with skeletons entangled in a mass of tattered
clothing. There was no way to avoid stepping upon
them. One by one, the others stepped from the airlock.
   [This place is a tomb,] Berk beamed to the group.
   [This whole planet is a tomb,] Sava replied, with an
extra echo harmonic allowing the word tomb to con-
tinue on well after the phrase was transmitted, added
specifically to annoy Pivo, who immediately shut
down the echo in his head with a countermeasure
from his muse.
   Sava took a few more crunching steps forward,
then stopped. The rest of the team followed suit.
