group, covered in bone bits and dust, the bot swarm
in whirring pursuit.
   Sava reached the lounge first and the portal was open.
Turning with rifle raised, Sava took cover against the
door frame. Sarlo and Pivo were past the flames and
Berk was closing the gap, as were the bots. Sava un-
loaded cover fire that sizzled over Sarlo's head, knock-
ing another bot out, but the rest of the swarm remained
unphased. They just kept coming. Suddenly, more bots
appeared out of the shrinking darkness near the lounge.
   [There's more! They're flanking!] Sava blasted at the
new bots to try and slow down their gambit. Sarlo
was only thirty feet from the portal when he tripped
on a tangle of bones. His boyish body collapsed face
first into the dust and human remains. Pivo made an
awkward leap over him, skidded across the floor, and
squished into the outer lounge wall right near the
door. Sava reached out, snagged the octomorph by a
arm, and dragged him into the safety of the lounge.
Berk tried to stop and help Sarlo up, but her momen-
tum was too much and her footing upon the dusty
floor too unstable. She tumbled forward in a roll of
dust cloud, chipped bone, and tattered rags, finally
slamming into Sava in the doorway.
   The three team members within the lounge gathered
themselves just in time to witness a bot latch onto
Sarlo's head from above as he stood up. The machine
stretched two arms out to the side, then plunged their
spinning blades into Sarlo's neck. Sarlo's eyes went wide
and his body tensed as the saw blades ground through
flesh and bone, working through his neck in seconds.
The instant his head was severed from the torso, the bot
swooped around and zipped off over the flames, into
the dark oblivion of the far end of the hangar.
   Sarlo's headless body wavered for a second, then
collapsed, spurting blood in long, lazy arcs.




Pivo, Sava, and Berk sat in silence. They had managed
to seal the portal into the lounge, locking out the hor-
rors of the hangar. The headhunter bots could still be
heard hovering outside the portal, occasionally clang-
ing and grinding their blades against the sealed door.
   Berk finally broke the silence. [I'm trying very hard not to
think about what they're going to do with him.]
   [Try harder. Sarlo knew the odds of survival were slim when
he signed on. We all did.] Sava stood up.
