   [Should we tell him? When he resleeves?] Pivo knew this
was going to set Sava off, but he blurted it anyway.
   [Would that be kindness or cruelty, Pivo? And besides,
there is no guarantee that any of us will survive. So who gives
a shit? Whenever your last backup was, I sure hope you're not
gonna miss anything since. Let's get moving.]




With Sarlo gone, Pivo took over the navigation duties.
They were nearing the corporate VIP lounge, the last
known location of the courier.
   The team moved through dark corridors filled with
headless skeletons and mummified remains. Years
ago, the corporate forces defending the structure had
been overrun by AI war machines, which mercilessly
slaughtered everyone inside. The walls were scarred
from battle, covered in dried blood. Destroyed rem-
nants of the AI war machines littered the halls as well,
haunting monuments to the few victories humanity
had in their losing battle. Even as piles of scrap, the
machines had a menacing presence.
   [Too bad this isn't a salvage op,] Berk commented. [The
autonomists could use a look at this tech. At the very least,
figure out what the hypercorps might try to do with it.]
   As they entered a long concourse, the remains and
debris abruptly disappeared, as if cleared out.
   [I'm getting some strange thermal readings here. Patterns
that don't make sense,] transmitted Pivo.
   [What is that supposed to mean?] Sava beamed back.
   Before Pivo could give thought to “I don't know,”
his muse issued a chilling warning: [My nanosensors
register the presence of unknown nanobots in large numbers
of a highly sophisticated design, suggesting a TITAN manu-
facture. Countermeasures have been initiated.]
   [Nanoswarm. Move! Move!] Pivo broadcasted in a
panic as he launched into a full two-armed sprint.
Sava and Berk followed Pivo's lead without question.
They all knew the dangers of a TITAN nanoswarm.
Unlike the nanobots Pivo often made, which were
manufactured with particular purposes in mind, and
which were neither self-sustaining or intelligent, this
particular nanoswarm was autonomous, self-replicat-
ing, adaptive, and capable of making almost anything
it needed. Even as they fled, individual nanosensors
were measuring up the three agents, transmitting
details on their morphs and gear to the rest of the
swarm.
   A junction came into view ahead, the pathway nar-
rowing into a smaller tunnel. Suddenly, Pivo stopped,
just a meter before the tunnel. [Do not move forward!]
The others crashed to a halt.
   [What the fuck Pivo!?] Sava looked back down the
hall. [Fucking swarm could be finishing us as we speak!]
   [My muse picked up a burst of thermal energy here. The
swarm is up to something,] Pivo warned.
   [But there's nothing here,] Berk replied, as she
waved her hand across the tunnel entrance. Her
metal hand suddenly clanged to the floor, separated
from her wrist.
    [Monomolecular wire.] Even though the situation grew
more dire by the minute, Pivo was impressed and fas-
cinated with the inventiveness of the alien nanotech.
[It laced the door with it. Cuts through anything. Weak tensile
strength though—you probably snapped it.]
    [We're fucked. Let's face it.] Berk picked her severed
hand off the floor. Down the hall, the nanoswarm
began to take a visible shape as the nanobots accreted.
The swarm was congealing into a fog, creeping closer.
Berk continued, [The entirety of this port is probably filled
with this shit. I'm useless at this point. These things are al-
ready all over my systems, my diagnostics are going crazy.]
    [So what are you saying, Berk? You done?] Sava transmitted.
    [Yeah. I'm done.] Berk shook her head in disgust.
[Who knows what these little bastards have infected me with.
I don't want to risk it. I'd rather resort to a clean back up.
Forget this shit ever happened. You keep running if you want.
I'll try to buy you some time.] Berk turned and ran di-
rectly into the fog. The nanoswarm sucked in around
her immediately and the disassembly began. Berk's
metal frame began to dissolve as she ran further and
further away from Pivo and Sava, leaving a wispy trail
of nanoswarm behind her.
    [Get fucking moving fools! This isn't for my amusement!
I'll see ya the next time around.] A few minutes later,
Berk's signal went dead.




Sava and Pivo entered the VIP lounge. When the
spaceport was overrun so many years ago, this was
the site of the humans' last stand. Piles of security per-
sonnel skeletons littered the floor just inside the door-
way. The charred remnants of a hopeless barricade
were scattered beside the mounds of bone. Skeletons
draped in torn singed civilian garb were clustered
around the walls and corners, sometimes three or four
deep, as if they had all scrambled as far as possible
from some avatar of death in the middle of the room.
   Pivo started an operation to locate the RFID tag
the courier was supposedly chipped with in his left
shoulder blade. The code triggered a ping within three
meters. Pivo pointed a lengthy arm at a small bone
pile. [He's in there somewhere.]
   Sava stepped over to the pile of three skeletons
and began rummaging through the bones, yanking
out or snapping off all the femurs. [Goddamnit I want
a cigarette. This morph has me so tweaked. Haven't I made
it clear I don't smoke? Yet, every time, they sleeve me in a
morph nailed with the habit.] Sava handed the bundle of
bones to Pivo.
   [Must be a fury thing. Should just take a few minutes to
scan these for the nanoscale etching.] Pivo got to work.
[Enough time for a smoke, if you want.]
   [Yeah. Real funny. How about I grind you up into dust and
smoke you?] Sava sat down on the floor as Pivo sent
out a chuckle.
   The deceased courier, whomever he was, had been
entrusted with information too sensitive to transmit.
No one knew the true capabilities of the TITANs to
