intercept and decode, so the courier had been
encoded message directly onto one of his fem
 planet. His message had never been delivered.
    Pivo and Sava had no idea what the infor
 deemed it worthy of capture. Information
 family recipe for pasta sauce.
    [This is the one.] Pivo held out the femur to Sa
    [What does it say?]
     [I don't know. Not sure I want to know.] Pivo con
     [Enough with the drama Pivo. Just get your nanos
  carry, I will.]
      [I'd prefer that. Thank you.] Pivo set his nanobo
  were done, the intel was transmitted directly t
      [So, now what? How do we get out of here? Th
   Pivo's complexion changed from a milky gree
   helplessness began to settle in.
       Sava did not hesitate to answer, choosing
   leave, Pivo. Not even gonna try.” Sava raised
   head. “See you next time, calamari.” Sava p
    Pivo to a twitching mass of bloody scorched
    flop on the floor in a growing pool of blood
    against the wall.
         Sava pulled out a cigarette and lit it. The fi
     smoke.
         Upon exhale, Careza pinged. [Shall I contac
         Yeah. Get our lady on the line.
         A woman's voice, cold and harsh, entere
     Careza. [Are you prepared to deliver, Agent
          [That depends.] Sava took another drag.
          [Perhaps I did not make myself clear du
      options are rather limited. You are unlikel
       afford to lose this information, nor can w
       organization. You are going to have to follo
           [Either you give me her location right now, or
           There was a long pause before the wom
        quences, Agent Sava. For you and for Rati
           [Yeah. I suppose so.] The cigarette burned
        it gonna be?]
            [We do not bargain, Agent Sava, after a
         accordingly.] The connection with the wom
         the courier's femur lay and picked it up. P
         up to take a close look.
             Sorry, Careza. Info payload only. Leave
             [Understood.]
             With the flash of a thought, Sava inst
          farcaster—a one-shot neutrino transmit
          head exploded all over the room, taking
          the femur, however, found its way almos
           safely onto a dedicated Firewall receiver




          “What's the number?”
           The words dig their claws into my
         parched throat. My diction is predictabl
         a resleeve. The pitch of the voice is ap
         Definitely a biomorph and my latest sex
ected with nanobots that etched a nanoscopic
bones. However, he had never made it off the

 ion was, but someone at Firewall obviously
the TITANs perhaps. Or some CEO's secret

and tossed the others to the floor.

ued to hold out the femur.
ead it. We need a copy of the data. If you don't want to

o work on deciphering the inscription. When they
ava. Pivo wanted no part of it.
 ly way out is the way we came in, and that's suicide.]
o an almost royal blue. It always happened when

 peak as opposed to transmit. “We're not gonna
plasma rifle and aimed it directly at Pivo's oblong
d the trigger, and a fiery bolt of plasma reduced
tilage atop writhing arms. The arms continued to
Sava sat down next to a pile of bones and leaned

inhale was virtually orgasmic. Sava loved to
                                                             ■
                                                           PROJECT OZMA




oject Ozma?]

ava's head, so different from the soothe of
                                                              AGENT




a?]

g our initial negotiations, Agent Sava. Your
 make it off the planet alive, and we cannot
fford to have it fall into the hands of your
 hrough, and trust that we will do the same.]
                                                                        ■




 e your precious info with me.]
 ransmitted again. [You realize there will be conse-

he filter and Sava flicked it into a bone pile. [So what's

al has been struck. Do as you will, and we will react
 terminated. Sava stood up and walked over to where
's gore coated the bone. Sava wiped it off and held it

e ego behind.

ed Careza to activate the cortical stack's emergency
powered by the tiniest amount of antimatter. Sava's
courier's femur with it. The information contained on
stantly through the blackest depths of space, landing
 where in the solar system.




 vocal cords and yank themselves up and out of my
 or, as it always is during the first few minutes following
 nt despite the mumbled, sandpaper slur of the words.
female. This much I know in the first few seconds.
