intercept and decode, so the courier had been injected with nanobots that etched a nanoscopic
encoded message directly onto one of his femur bones. However, he had never made it off the
 planet. His message had never been delivered.
    Pivo and Sava had no idea what the information was, but someone at Firewall obviously
 deemed it worthy of capture. Information on the TITANs perhaps. Or some CEO's secret
 family recipe for pasta sauce.
    [This is the one.] Pivo held out the femur to Sava and tossed the others to the floor.
    [What does it say?]
     [I don't know. Not sure I want to know.] Pivo continued to hold out the femur.
     [Enough with the drama Pivo. Just get your nanos to read it. We need a copy of the data. If you don't want to
  carry, I will.]
      [I'd prefer that. Thank you.] Pivo set his nanobots to work on deciphering the inscription. When they
  were done, the intel was transmitted directly to Sava. Pivo wanted no part of it.
      [So, now what? How do we get out of here? The only way out is the way we came in, and that's suicide.]
   Pivo's complexion changed from a milky green to an almost royal blue. It always happened when
   helplessness began to settle in.
       Sava did not hesitate to answer, choosing to speak as opposed to transmit. “We're not gonna
   leave, Pivo. Not even gonna try.” Sava raised the plasma rifle and aimed it directly at Pivo's oblong
   head. “See you next time, calamari.” Sava pulled the trigger, and a fiery bolt of plasma reduced
    Pivo to a twitching mass of bloody scorched cartilage atop writhing arms. The arms continued to
    flop on the floor in a growing pool of blood as Sava sat down next to a pile of bones and leaned
    against the wall.
         Sava pulled out a cigarette and lit it. The first inhale was virtually orgasmic. Sava loved to




                                                                                                                  ■
     smoke.




                                                                                                                PROJECT OZMA
         Upon exhale, Careza pinged. [Shall I contact Project Ozma?]
         Yeah. Get our lady on the line.
         A woman's voice, cold and harsh, entered Sava's head, so different from the soothe of




                                                                                                                   AGENT
     Careza. [Are you prepared to deliver, Agent Sava?]
          [That depends.] Sava took another drag.
          [Perhaps I did not make myself clear during our initial negotiations, Agent Sava. Your
      options are rather limited. You are unlikely to make it off the planet alive, and we cannot
       afford to lose this information, nor can we afford to have it fall into the hands of your
       organization. You are going to have to follow through, and trust that we will do the same.]                           ■
           [Either you give me her location right now, or I take your precious info with me.]
           There was a long pause before the woman transmitted again. [You realize there will be conse-
        quences, Agent Sava. For you and for Rati.]
           [Yeah. I suppose so.] The cigarette burned to the filter and Sava flicked it into a bone pile. [So what's
        it gonna be?]
            [We do not bargain, Agent Sava, after a deal has been struck. Do as you will, and we will react
         accordingly.] The connection with the woman terminated. Sava stood up and walked over to where
         the courier's femur lay and picked it up. Pivo's gore coated the bone. Sava wiped it off and held it
         up to take a close look.
             Sorry, Careza. Info payload only. Leave the ego behind.
             [Understood.]
             With the flash of a thought, Sava instructed Careza to activate the cortical stack's emergency
          farcaster—a one-shot neutrino transmitter, powered by the tiniest amount of antimatter. Sava's
          head exploded all over the room, taking the courier's femur with it. The information contained on
          the femur, however, found its way almost instantly through the blackest depths of space, landing
           safely onto a dedicated Firewall receiver elsewhere in the solar system.




         “What's the number?”
          The words dig their claws into my new vocal cords and yank themselves up and out of my
        parched throat. My diction is predictably poor, as it always is during the first few minutes following
        a resleeve. The pitch of the voice is apparent despite the mumbled, sandpaper slur of the words.
        Definitely a biomorph and my latest sex is female. This much I know in the first few seconds.
