LARITY■ENTER THE SINGULARITY■ENTE



R THE SINGULARIT
  We humans have a special way of pulling ourselves up
  and kicking ourselves down at the same time. We'd
  achieved more progress than ever before, at the cost
  of wrecking our planet and destabilizing our own
  governments. But things were starting to look up.
     With exponentially accelerating technologies, we
  reached out into the solar system, terraforming worlds
  and seeding new life. We re-forged our bodies and
  minds, casting off sickness and death. We achieved
  immortality through the digitization of our minds,
  resleeving from one biological or synthetic body to
  the next at will. We uplifted animals and AIs to be our
  equals. We acquired the means to build anything we
  desired from the molecular level up, so that no one
  need want again.
    Yet our race toward extinction was not slowed, and
  in fact received a machine-assist over the precipice.
  Billions died as our technologies rapidly bloomed into
  something beyond control … further transforming
  humanity into something else, scattering us through-
  out the solar system, and reigniting vicious conflicts.
  Nuclear strikes, biowarfare plagues, nanoswarms,
  mass uploads … a thousand horrors nearly wiped
  humanity from existence.
     We still survive, divided into a patchwork of restric-
  tive inner system hypercorp-backed oligarchies and
  libertarian outer system collectivist habitats, tribal
  networks, and new experimental societal models. We
  have spread to the outer reaches of the solar system
  and even gained footholds in the galaxy beyond. But
  we are no longer solely “human” … we have evolved
  into something simultaneously more and different—
  something transhuman.



  STARTING OUT
  Eclipse Phase is a post-apocalyptic roleplaying game
  of transhuman conspiracy and horror. Humans are
  enhanced and improved, but humanity is battered and
  bitterly divided. Technology allows the re-shaping of
  bodies and minds and liberates us from material needs,
  but also creates opportunities for oppression and puts
  the capability for mass destruction in the hands of ev-
  eryone. Many threats lurk in the devastated habitats of
  the Fall, dangers both familiar and alien.

  WHAT IS A ROLEPLAYING GAME?
  Have you ever read a book or seen a movie or a tele-
  vision show where a character does something really
  stupid, like heading into a basement at night when the
  character knows the serial killer is around? The whole
  time, you're thinking: “I wouldn't walk down those
  creepy stairs to the dark basement, especially without a
  flashlight. I'd do X, Y, or Z instead!” Since you're in the
THE SINGULARITY■ENTER THE SINGUL
                ENTER



Y                                                               2


      WHAT IS
      TRANSHUMANISM?
     Transhumanism is a term used synonymously to
      mean “human enhancement.” It is an interna-
      tional cultural and intellectual movement that
      endorses the use of science and technology to
      enhance the human condition, both mentally
      and physically. In support of this, transhumanism
      also embraces using emerging technologies to
      eliminate the undesirable elements of the human
      condition such as aging, disabilities, diseases, and
      involuntary death. Many transhumanists believe
      these technologies will be arriving in our near
      future at an exponentially accelerated pace and
      work to promote universal access to and demo-
      cratic control of such technologies. In the long
      scheme of things, transhumanism can also be
      considered the transitional period between the
      current human condition and an entity so far ad-
      vanced in capabilities (both physical and mental
      faculties) as to merit the label “posthuman.”
        As a theme, transhumanism embraces heady
      questions. What defines human? What does it
      mean to defeat death? If minds are software,
      where do you draw the line with programming
      them? If machines and animals can also be
      raised to sentience, what are our responsibilities
      to them? If you can copy yourself, where does
     “you” end and someone new begin? What are
      the potentials of these technologies in terms of
      both oppressive control and liberation? How will
      these technologies change our society, our cul-
      tures, and our lives?                              ■




    passenger's seat for the plot you're reading or watching,
    however, you simply have to sit back and let it unfold.
       What if you could take hold of the driver's seat?
    What if you could take the plot in the direction you'd
    choose? That is the essence of a roleplaying game.
       A roleplaying game (or RPG, for short) is part im-
    provisational theater, part storytelling, and part game.
    A single person (the gamemaster) runs the game for
    a group of players that pretend to be characters in a
    fictitious world. The world could be a mystery game
    set in the 1920s that takes you adventuring around
    the globe, a fantasy realm inhabited by dragons
    and trolls and sword-wielding barbarians, or a sci-
    ence fiction setting with aliens and spaceship and
    world-crushing weaponry. The players pick a setting
    that they find cool and want to play in. The players
    then craft their own characters, providing a detailed
