POST-APOCALYPTIC, CONSPI
Several themes pervade Eclipse Phase, some of which
the reader may not be intimately familiar with. The
following helps define these themes so that as play
ers read further into this rulebook, they gain a solid
understanding of how Eclipse Phase builds on such
themes to create its unique setting.
   Post-apocalyptic is a term used to describe fiction
set after a cataclysmic event has ended human civili
zation as we know it (usually accompanied by loss of
human life on an almost unthinkable scale). The exact
mechanism of the disaster is usually unimportant
nuclear war, plague, asteroid strike, and so on. The
importance of the theme is the human condition. If
the world we know is torn away from us and humans
suffer horrors beyond imagining in this transforma
tion to a post-apocalyptic setting, how does human
ity cope? Do we survive and thrive and overcome?
Or do we lose our own humanity in the process, o
ultimately fall to extinction? Those are the questions
that drive this genre.
   To conspire means “to join in a secret agreement
to do an unlawful or wrongful act or to use such
means to accomplish a lawful end.” As such, a con
spiracy theory attributes the ultimate cause of an
event or a chain of events (whether political, societa
or historical) to a secret group of individuals with
immense power (including political, wealth and so
on) who hide their activities from public view while
manipulating events to achieve their goals, regard
less of consequences. Many conspiracy theories
contend that a host of the greatest events of history
were initiated and ultimately controlled by such
secret organizations. Of equal importance is the
silent struggle between clandestine groups, waging
a secret war behind the scenes to determine who
influences the future.




 history and personality to bring each to life. These
 characters have a set of statistics (numerical values)
 that represent skills, attributes, and other abilities.
 The gamemaster then explains the situation in which
 the characters find themselves. The players, through
 their characters, interact with the storyline and each
 others' characters, acting out the plot. As the players
 roleplay through some scenarios, the gamemaster will
 probably ask a given player to roll some dice and the
 resulting numbers will determine the success or failure
 of a character's attempted action. The gamemaster
 uses the rules of the game to interpret the dice rolls
 and the outcome of the character's actions.
    As a group exercise, the players control the storyline
 (the adventure), which evolves much like any movie or
 book but within the flexible plot created by the game-
 master. This gamemaster plot provides a framework
ACY, AND HORROR THEMES
   Horror takes many forms, but in Eclipse Phase it is
more psychological than gore. It is the uncertainty of
survival, the suspense of finding malevolent things
among the stars, the fear of the unknown, the dread
of facing Things That Should Not Be, the revulsion
when encountering alien things, and the sickening
realization of the wrong and ghastly things that tran-
shumans are capable of doing to themselves and each
other. Horror also arises both from the comprehension
that there are scary things beyond our understanding
 nhabiting our universe and that transhumanity may
be its own worst enemy. Despite all of the technologi-
cal tools and advances available to future transhumans,
they still face terrors like losing control of their own
 dentities, their perceptions, and their mental facul-
ties—not to mention their future as a species.
   Eclipse Phase takes all of these themes and weaves
them together in a transhuman setting. The post-
apocalyptic angle covers the understanding of all
that transhumanity has lost, the fight against extinc-
tion, and how much of that is a struggle against
our own nature. The conspiracy side delves into the
nature of the secret organizations that play key roles
 n determining transhumanity's future and how the
actions of determined individuals can change the
 ives of many. The horror perspective explores the
results of humanity's self-inflicted transformations
and how some of these changes effectively make us
non-human. Tying it all together is an awareness of
the massive indifference and the terrible alien-ness
that pervades the universe and how transhumanity is
 nsignificant against such a backdrop.
   Offsetting these themes, however, Eclipse Phase
also asserts that there is still hope, that there is still
something worth fighting for, and that transhuman-
 ty can pave its own path toward the future.           ■




  and ideas for potential courses of action and outcomes,
  but it is simply an outline of what might happen—it
  is not concrete until the players become involved. If
  you don't want to walk down those stairs, you don't.
  If you think you can talk yourself out of a situation
  in place of pulling a gun, then try and make it happen.
  The script of any roleplaying session is written by the
  players, and the story, based upon the character's ac-
  tions and their responses to the events of the plot, will
  constantly change and evolve.
     The best part is that there is no “right” or “wrong”
  way to play an RPG. Some games may involve more
  combat and dice rolling-related situations, where other
  games may involve more storytelling and improvised
  dialogue to resolve a situation. Each group of players
  decides for themselves the type and style of game they
  enjoy playing!
