BUT HOW DO YOU ACTUALLY PLAY?
To play a game of Eclipse Phase, you need the following:

 - A group of players and a place to meet (real life
   or online!)
 - One player to act as the gamemaster
 - The contents of this book
 - Something for everyone to take notes with (note-
   pads, laptops, whatever!)
 - Two 10-sided dice per player (or a digital
   equivalent)
 - Imagination

A GROUP OF PLAYERS AND A PLACE TO MEET
While roleplaying games are flexible enough to allow
any number of people, most gaming groups number
around four to eight players. That number of people
brings a good mix of personalities to the table and
ensures great cooperative play.
   Once a group of players have determined to play
Eclipse Phase, they'll need to designate someone as
the gamemaster (see below). Then they'll need to de-
termine a time and place to meet.
   Most roleplaying groups meet once a week at a reg-
ularly scheduled time and place: 7:00 PM, Thursday
night, Rob's house, for example. However, each group
determines where, how they'll play, and how often.
One group may decide they can only get together
once a month, while another group is so excited to
dive into the story potential of Eclipse Phase that
they want to meet twice a week (they decide to rotate
between their houses, though, so as not to overload
a particular player). If a group is lucky enough to
have a favorite local gaming store that supports in-
store play, the group might meet there. Other gaming
groups meet in libraries, common rooms at their
school, bookstores that have generously-sized “read-
ing rooms,” quiet restaurants, and so on. Whatever
fits for your gaming group, make it work!
   When getting together for a game, most RPGs
use the phrase “gaming session.” The length of each
gaming session is completely dependent upon the con-
sensus of the playing group, as well as the limitations
of the locale where they're playing. The particular
story that unfolds in a given session can also impact a
session's length. If playing in a game store, the group
may only have a four-hour slot and the gamemaster
and group may have determined—through several ses-
sions of play—that this is a perfect time frame to enjoy
the story they're participating in each week. Another
group, however, may want an even shorter length of
time. Yet another group may decide that while they'll
usually do four-hour sessions, once a month they'll
set aside an entire Saturday for a great all-day gaming
session. Players will need to dive in and start play-
ing and be flexible to decide what will provide the
ultimate enjoyment for their gaming group.
   While the camaraderie of a shared experience of
playing face-to-face with a group of friends remains
