the strength of roleplaying games, groups need not
confine themselves to a single mode of play. There are
myriad options that can be used. Email, instant mes-
sages, message boards, video chats, phone/voip calls,
text messages, wikis, (micro-)blogs: any and all of
these can be utilized to play the game without having
warm bodies in seats directly across the table from
one another.
   Finally, when playing groups meet for the first time,
they should generate their characters (as opposed to
generating characters by themselves). While a gaming
group can decide to generate characters individually,
often it is far easier once the players are together. This
allows those more experienced in roleplaying games to
help those new to RPGs. Even more important, it en-
ables the entire group to tailor the characters so there
is not too much overlap in capabilities and style. After
all, with the wealth of character opportunities avail-
able, you don't want to show up at the table with an
almost identical character to the player next to you.

THE GAMEMASTER
Once a group has been organized, someone needs to
step up and take the reins of the gamemaster. Some
groups have a single gamemaster that runs all their
gaming sessions month after month. Other groups
rotate a gamemaster, with a single gamemaster run-
ning a given portion of the unfolding story for sev-
eral sessions before handing the work off to another
player. Once again, the participants should be flexible.
Some groups may have the perfect person who loves
the work involved and is more than willing to run
session after session, while other groups may decide
that they all want to take turns both as the gamemas-
ter and as players.
  The gamemaster controls the story. They keep track
of what is supposed to happen when, describes events
as they occur so that the players (as characters) can
react to them, keep track of other characters in the
game (referred to as non-player characters, or NPCs),
and resolve attempts to take action using the game
system. The game system comes into play when char-
acters seek to use their skills or otherwise do some-
thing that requires a test to see whether or not they
succeed. Specific rules are presented for situations that
involve rolling dice to determine the outcome (see
Game Mechanics, p. 112).
  The gamemaster describes the world as the char-
acters see it, functioning as their eyes, ears, and other
senses. Gamemastering is not easy, but the thrill of
creating an adventure that engages the other players'
imaginations, testing their gaming skills and their
characters' skills in the game world, makes it worth-
while. Posthuman Studios and Catalyst Game Labs
will follow the publication of Eclipse Phase with sup-
porting supplements and adventures to help this pro-
cess along, but experienced gamemasters can always
adapt the game universe to suit their own styles. In
fact, since Eclipse Phase is published under a Creative
Commons License (see p. 5), players are encouraged
to tailor the universe to their style of play and also
to share that with other players. You never know
when a specific choice you've made in the running of
a campaign is exactly what another gamemaster and
his group is looking for.

THE CONTENTS OF THIS BOOK
Whether you have purchased the print or electronic
version, this book is specifically organized to present
the information you need to know to start telling
your stories in the Eclipse Phase universe. Below
you'll find a summary of each chapter of the book.
   A Time of Eclipse: A comprehensive history and set-
ting fully describes the Eclipse Phase universe and how
humanity transitioned from here to there. See p. 30.
   Game Mechanics: The player's desired actions
become reality within the universe through quick and
easy-to-use game mechanics. See p. 112.
   Character Creation and Advancement: Creating a
unique character can be one of the most enjoyable
experiences of roleplaying. Even more rewarding is
watching that character evolve and grow across nu-
merous gaming sessions, far beyond anything your
imagination first envisioned. See p. 128.
   Skills: Beyond a character's innate abilities, their
skills are what set them apart. This is what your
character knows and what they know how to do. See
p. 170.
   Action and Combat: What is a dramatic story with-
out action and violence? When words fail, weapons
will blaze. See p. 186.
   Mind Hacks: The unusual possibilities offered by
psi abilities and mental reprogramming. See p. 216.
   The Mesh: The all-pervasive nature of the mesh
ensures that it is a key element to any story telling.
See p. 234.
   Accelerated Future: The wonders of advanced tech-
nologies and how they work. See p. 266.
   Gear: Personal enhancements, weapons, robots, and
everything else in between. See p. 294.
   Game Information: The quintessential set of insider
secrets for gamemasters. See p. 350.

TAKING NOTES
Whether a gamemaster or player, you'll need a way to
track information. Players will be generating charac-
ters and making changes to those characters from ses-
sion to session. Meanwhile, the gamemaster will have
a host of information to track: notes on how the story
is unfolding due to player character interaction that
you'll need to fold into next week's session; changes
to NPCs; changes to player characters that the players
are not yet aware off (such as a character has been
mind hacked but doesn't yet know it); and so on.
   Additionally, some groups enjoy a synopsis of
each session that can be compiled and read at a
later time in order to enjoy and share their exploits,
just as you might fileshare clips from your favorite
video game to show off your skill in taking the
bad guy down (traditionally this has been called
