“bluebooking”). This can be particularly useful if a
 player was unable to attend a given session, pro-
 viding a quick re-cap that they can read before at-
 tending the next gaming session and thus avoiding
 a bog-down up-front as that player tries to catch
 up on current events in the game. The session scribe
 can be a shared responsibility or assigned, all based
 upon what a given playing group finds works best
 for them. Likewise, some gaming groups audio-
 record their entire game session, both for later
 reference and for “actual play” podcasts.
   The old standard of a pencil and paper still works
wonders. A host of additional technologies, how-
 ever, provide many new options for players. From
 a text file on a laptop to a shared wiki, the ability
 to track large amounts of information in a quick
 and useful fashion—while simultaneously making
 appropriate information available to each player
 from session to session—significantly decreases
 how much time everyone needs to spend tracking
 information. That time can now be redirected into
 the enjoyment of participating in a great story.

DICE
As described in the Game Mechanics section (p. 112),
two ten-sided dice are required to play Eclipse Phase.
While most players enjoy the feel of tossing dice onto
a table, there are many other mechanisms for rolling
two ten-sided dice to achieve a 00 to 99 result. Players
who make heavy use of any online technologies for
game play—such as using online chatting or video
blogging—should find it easy to track down and
implement a quick dice-rolling program.

IMAGINATION
All too often, it's easy for someone looking at an
RPG to be intimidated. So many concepts to grasp,
so many ideas that seem overwhelming. Just as de-
scribed under What is a Roleplaying Game?, how-
ever, how often have you read a book or watched
that movie and decided that you would have done
it better? That's your imagination at work. Just dive
in and you'll be amazed at how quickly you can im-
merse yourself in the Eclipse Phase universe. Soon
you'll be spinning stories with the best of them.
   Also, don't forget to tap your resources. Your
gaming group is your best resource. What's going on,
ideas for how to handle a situation, or how to take
on a bad guy: these are just some of the things that
can and should be discussed by the gaming group
in between sessions, and each is an opportunity to
strengthen your imagination.
   Another resource is simply watching TV or read-
ing a good book. Pay attention to how the story is
put together, how the characters are built, and how
the plot unfolds. Push your imagination and soon
you'll be figuring out subplots and who the bad guy
is long before it's revealed. Knowing how a story is
put together enables you to put together your own
stories during each gaming session.
   Finally, eclipsephase.com is the offi cial site for
Eclipse Phase. If you have questions about the
game or want to see how another group of players
handles a given situation, post on the forums. The
online community can be just as helpful and enjoy-
able as a local gaming group.

WHAT DO PLAYERS DO?
The players can take on a variety of roles in Eclipse
Phase. Due to advances in digital mind emulation
technology, uploading, and downloading into new
morphs (physical bodies, biological or synthetic), it is
possible to literally be a new person from session to
session. With bodies taking on the role of gear, players
can customize their forms for the task at hand.

THE DEFAULT CAMPAIGN
In the default story (also known as “campaign set-
ting”), every player character is a “sentinel,” an
agent-on-call (or potential recruit) for a shadowy
network known as “Firewall.” Firewall is dedicated
to counteracting “existential risks”—threats to the
existence of transhumanity. These risks can and do
include biowar plagues, nanotech swarm outbreaks,
nuclear proliferation, terrorists with WMDs, net-
breaking computer attacks, rogue AIs, alien en-
counters, and so on. Firewall isn't content to simply
counteract these threats as they arise, of course,
so characters may also be sent on information-
gathering missions or to put in place pre-emptive
