or failsafe measures. Characters may be tasked to
investigate seemingly innocuous people and places
(who turn out not to be), make deals with shady
criminal networks (who turn out not to be trustwor-
thy), or travel through a Pandora's Gate wormhole
to analyze the relics of some alien ruin (and see if
the threat that killed them is still real). Sentinels
are recruited from every faction of transhumanity;
those who aren't ideologically loyal to the cause are
hired as mercenaries. These campaigns tend to mix
a bit of mystery and investigation with fierce bouts
of action and combat, also stirring in a nice dose of
awe and horror.

ALTERNATE CAMPAIGNS
When they're not saving the solar system, sentinels are
free to pursue their own endeavors. The gamemaster
and players can use this rulebook to generate any
type of story they wish to tell. However, the following
examples provide a brief look at the most obvious op-
portunities for adventure in Eclipse Phase.
   After each campaign variant below, a list of “ar-
chetypes” for Eclipse Phase are provided in paren-
thesis. Archetypes are the names applied to the most
common character types featured in those scenarios.
For example, in a traditional detective story, the ar-
chetypes would be the Detective, the Damsel In Dis-
tress, the Hard-bitten Cop, and so on. In a cowboy
movie, the archetypes would be the Gunfighter, the
Bartender, the Marshal, the Indian Brave, and so
on. Players will note that some archetypes fit into
multiple story settings. The character creation system
(p. 128) allows players to create any of the suggested
archetypes. Just as roleplaying games are designed
for players to build their own stories, however, these
archetypes are just suggestions and players can mix
and match how they will.
   Salvage and Rescue/Retrieval Ops: The Fall left
two worlds and numerous habitats in ruins—but
these devastated cities and stations contain untold
riches for those who are brave and foolhardy
enough. Potential hauls include: weapon systems;
physical resources; lost databanks; left-behind up-
loads of friends, family, or important people; new
technologies developed and lost in the brief singular-
ity takeoff; valued heirlooms of immortal oligarchs;
and much more. Outside of these once-inhabited
realms, space itself is a big place and lots of people
and things get lost out there. Some need to be saved
and some are beyond saving. This option lets players
explore the unknown or seek out specific targets on
contract. (Archeologist/Scavenger/Pirate/Free Trader/
Smuggler/Black Marketeer)
   Exploration: There are plenty of opportunities
to be had as an explorer, colonist, or long-range
scout—perhaps even as one of the few lucky or sui-
cidal individuals who explore through an untested
Pandora's Gate. Even the Kuiper Belt, on the fringe
of our solar system, is still sparsely explored; there
may be riches and mysteries still to be found. Many
dangers also lurk in odd corners of the system, from
isolationist posthuman factions to secretive criminal
cartels, as well as pirates, aliens, and others wish-
ing to remain out of sight. (Explorer/Archeologist/
Scavenger/Singularity Seeker/Techie/Medic)
   Trade: While the majority of inner system trade is
controlled by sleek hypercorporations, many of the
smaller or more independent stations rely on small
traders. In the post-scarcity outer system, trade takes
on a different form, with information, favors, and
creativity serving as currency among those who no
longer want for anything due to the availability of
cornucopia machines. (Free Trader/Smuggler/Black
Marketeer/Pirate)
   Crime: The patchwork of city-state habitats and
widely varying laws throughout the system create
ample opportunity for those who would make a
living from this situation. Black market commodi-
ties and activities include infomorph-slave trading,
pleasure pod sex industries, data brokerage and
theft, extracting/smuggling advanced technologies
and scientists, political/economic espionage, assas-
sination, drug and XP dealing, soul-trading, and
much more. Whether as an independent or part of
an organized criminal element, there are always op-
portunities for those with a thirst for adventure or
profit and questionable morals. (Criminal/Smuggler/
Pirate/Fixer/Black Marketeer/Genehacker/Hacker/
Covert Ops)
   Mercenaries: The constant maneuvering of ideolog-
ically-driven factions, the squabbling over contested
resources, and the rush to colonize new exoplanets
beyond the Pandora Gates all spark new conflicts on
a regular basis. Some of these simmer and seeth as
low-intensity conflicts for years, occasionally flaring
into raids and clashes. Others break out into all-out
warfare. Women and men willing to bear arms for
credits are always in demand for good wages. Play-
ers can engage in commando and military campaigns
in habitats, between the stars, or in hostile planetary
environments. (Merc/Security Specialist/Fixer/Bounty
Hunter/Ex-Cop/Medic)
   Socio-Political Intrigue: The corporations and
political factions that span the solar system do not
always play nice with each other, but neither is it
wise for them to openly confront each other except
under extreme circumstances. Many battles are
fought with diplomacy and political maneuvering,
using words and ideas more potent than weapons.
Even within factions, social cliques can compete
ruthlessly, or heated class confl icts can come to
a boil, tearing a society apart from within. In this
campaign, the players can start as pawns of some
entity who rise through the ranks as they become
more enmeshed in the intrigues of their sponsor, play
a group of ambassadors and spies stationed in the
opposition's capital, or can play a group of activ-
ists and radicals fighting for social change. (Politico/
Socialite/Covert Ops/Hacker/Security Specialist/
Journalist/Memeticist)
