WHERE DOES IT TAKE PLACE?
While Eclipse Phase is set in the not-too-distant
future, the changes that have taken place due to the
advancements of technology have transformed the
Earth and its inhabitants almost beyond recognition.
As players dive into the universe, they'll generally
encounter one of the following settings.

HUMANITY'S HABITATS
The Earth has been left an ecologically-devastated
ruin, but humanity has taken to the stars. When
Earth was abandoned, so too were the last of the
great nation-states; transhumanity now lacks
a single unifying governing body and is instead
subject to the laws and regulations of whomever
controls a given habitat.
  The majority of transhumanity is confined to
orbital habitats or satellite stations scattered
throughout the Sol system. Some of these were
constructed from scratch in the orbit or Lagrange
points of planetary bodies, others have been hewn
out of solid satellites and large asteroids. These sta-
tions have myriad purposes from trade to warfare,
espionage to research.
  Mars continues to be one of transhumanity's
largest settlements, though it too, suffered heavily
during the Fall. Numerous cities and settlements
remain, however, though the planet is only partially
terraformed. Venus, Luna, and Titan are also home
to significant populations. Additionally, there are a
small number of colonies that have been established
on exoplanets (on the other side of the Pandora
Gates) with environments that are not too hostile
towards humanity.
   Some transhumans prefer to live on large colony
ships or linked swarms of smaller spacecraft, moving
nomadically. Some of these rovers intentionally exile
themselves to the far limits of the solar system, far
from everyone else, while others actively trade from
habitat to habitat, station to station, serving as
mobile black markets.

THE GREAT UNKNOWN
The areas of the galaxy that have felt the touch of
humanity are few and far between. Lying betwixt
these occasional outposts of questionable civilization
are mysteries both dangerous and wonderful. Ever
since the discovery of the Pandora Gates, there has
been no shortage of adventurers brave or foolhardy
enough to strike out on their own into the unknown
regions of space in hopes of finding more alien ar-
tifacts, or even establishing contact with one of the
other sentient races in the universe.

THE MESH
While not a “setting” in the traditional sense, as
the sections describe above, the computer net-
works known as the “mesh” are all-pervasive. This
ubiquitous computing environment is made pos-
sible thanks to advanced computer technologies and
nanofabrication that allow unlimited data storage
and near-instantaneous transmission capacities. With
micro-scale, cheap-to-produce wireless transceivers so
abundant, literally everything is wirelessly connected
and online. Via implants or small personal comput-
ers, characters have access to archives of information
that dwarf the entire 21st-century internet and sensor
systems that pervade every public place. People's
entire lives are recorded and lifelogged, shared with
others on one of numerous social networks that link
everyone together in a web of contacts, favors, and
reputation systems.

EGO VS. MORPH
The distinction between ego (your mind and per-
 sonality, including memories, knowledge, and skills)
 and morph (your physical body and its capabilities)
 is one of the defi ning characteristics of Eclipse
Phase. A good understanding of the concept right
 up front will allow players a glimpse at all the story
 possibilities out of the gate.
   Your body is disposable. If it gets old, sick, or too
 heavily damaged, you can digitize your conscious-
 ness and download it into a new one. The process
 isn't cheap or easy, but it does guarantee you ef-
 fective immortality—as long as you remember to
 back yourself up and don't go insane. The term
 morph is used to describe any type of form your
 mind inhabits, whether a vat-grown clone sleeve,
 a synthetic robotic shell, a part-bio/part-synthetic
“pod,” or even the purely electronic software state
 of an infomorph.
   A character's morph may die, but the character's
 ego may live on, assuming appropriate backup
 measures have been taken. Morphs are expendable,
 but your character's ego represents the ongoing,
 continuous life path of your character's mind and
 personality. This continuity may be interrupted by
 an unexpected death (depending on how recently
 the backup was made), but it represents the totality
 of the character's mental state and experiences.
    Some aspects of your character—particularly skills,
 along with some stats and traits—belong to your
 character's ego and so stay with them throughout
 the character's development. Some stats and traits,
 however, are determined by morph, as noted, and so
will change if your character leaves one body and
 takes on another. Morphs may also affect other skills
 and stats, as detailed in the morph description.

WHERE TO GO FROM HERE?
Now that you know what this game is about, we sug-
gest that you next read the Time of Eclipse chapter
(p.  30), to get a feel for the game's default setting
(which you are, of course, free to change to suit your
whims). Then read the Game Mechanics chapter
(p. 112) to get a grasp of the rules. After that, you
can move on to Character Creation and Advancement
(p. 128) and create your first character!
