TERMINOLOGY
Eclipse Phase uses a host of jargon to simply convey
the numerous concepts covered within the pages of
this book. While not all-inclusive, this list of terminol-
ogy will allow players to quickly acclimate themselves
for their journey into Eclipse Phase. If you read some-
thing and are confused, don't worry. These concepts
are fully explained in later sections of this book.
  Note that several of the words on this list are
standard scientific terms, often used in astronomy. As
Eclipse Phase attempts to remain as close to “hard sci-
ence” as possible—while allowing players to interact
with the great stories waiting to unfold—such terms
are used liberally.

■ Aerostat: A habitat designed to float like a balloon in a
  planet's upper atmosphere.
■ AF: After the Fall (used for reference dating).
■ AGI: Artificial General Intelligence. An AI that has cogni-
  tive faculties comparable to that of a human or higher.
  Also known as “strong AI” (differentiating from more
  specialized “weak AI”). See also “seed AI.”
■ AI: Artificial Intelligence. Generally used to refer to weak
  AIs; i.e., AIs that do not encompass (or in some cases, are
  completely outside of) the full range of human cognitive
  abilities. AIs differ from AGIs in that they are usually
  specialized and/or intentionally crippled/limited.
■ Anarchist: Someone who believes government is
  unnecessary, that power corrupts, and that people should
  control their own lives through self-organized individual
  and collective action.
■ Arachnoid: A spider-like robotic synthmorph.
■ Argonauts: A faction of techno-progressive scientists
  that promote responsible and ethical use of technology.
■ AR: Augmented Reality. Information from the mesh (uni-
  versal data network) that is overlaid on your real-world
  senses. AR data is usually entoptic (visual), but can also
  be audio, tactile, olfactory, kinesthetic (body awareness),
  emotional, or other types of input.
■ Async: A person with psi abilities.
■ AU: Astronomical unit. The distance between the Earth
  and the Sun, equal to 8.3 light minutes, or about 150
  million kilometers.
■ Autonomists: The alliance of anarchists, Barsoomians,
  Extropians, scum, and Titanians.
■ Barsoomian: A rural Martian, typically resentful of
  hypercorp control.
■ Basilisk Hack: An image or other sensory input that
  affects the brain's visual cortex and pattern recognition
  abilities in such a way as to cause a glitch and possibly
  exploit it and rewrite neural code.
■ Beehive: A microgravity habitat made from a tunneled-
  out asteroid or moon.
■ BF: Before the Fall (used for reference dating).
■ Bioconservative: An anti-technology movement that argues
  for strict regulation of nanofabrication, AI, uploading, forking,
  cognitive enhancements, and other disruptive technologies.
■ Biomorph: A biological body, whether a flat, splicer,
  genetically engineered transhuman, or pod.
■ Body Bank: A service for leasing, selling, acquiring, or
  storing a morph. Aka dollhouse, morgue.
■ Bots: Robots. AI-piloted synthetic shells.
■ Bracewell Probe: A type of autonomous monitoring deep-
  space probe meant to make contact with alien civilizations.
■ Brinkers: Exiles who live on the fringes of the system,
  as well as other isolated and well-hidden nooks and
  crannies. Also called isolates, fringers, drifters.
■ Case: A cheap, common, mass-produced synthetic shell.
■ Chimeric: Transgenic, containing genetic traits from
  other species.
■ Circumjovian: Orbiting Jupiter.
■ Circumlunar: Orbiting the Moon.
■ Circumsolar: Orbiting the Sun.
■ Cislunar: Between the Earth and the Moon.
■ Clade: A species or group of organisms with common
  features. Used to refer to transhuman subspecies and
  morph types.
■ Cole Bubble: A habitat made from a hollowed-out
  asteroid or moon, spun for gravity.
■ Cornucopia Machine: A general-purpose nanofabricator.
■ Cortical Stack: An implanted memory cell used for ego
  backup. Located where the spine meets the skull; can be
  cut out.
■ Cyberbrain: An artificial brain, housing an ego. Used in
  both synthmorphs and pods.
■ Darkcast: Illegal and black market farcasting and
  egocasting services.
■ Domain Rules: The rules that govern the reality of a
  virtual reality simulspace.
■ Drone: A robot controlled through teleoperation (rather
  than directly via onboard AI).
■ Ecto: Personal mesh devices that are flexible, stretchable,
  self-cleaning, translucent, and solar-powered. From
  ecto-link (external link).
■ Ego: The part of you that switches from body to body.
 Also known as ghost, soul, essence, spirit, persona.
■ Egocasting: Term for sending egos via farcasting.
■ Entoptics: Augmented-reality images that you “see” in
  your head. (“Entoptic” means “within the eye.”)
■ ETI: Extraterrestial intelligence. The term Firewall uses
  to refer to the god-like post-singularity alien intelligence
  theorized to be responsible for the Exsurgent virus.
■ Exalts: Genetically-enhanced humans (between gen-
  efixed and transhumans). Aka genefreaks, the ascended,
  the elevated.
■ Exoplanet: A planet in another solar system.
■ Exsurgent: Someone infected by the Exsurgent virus.
■ Exsurgent Virus: The multi-vector virus created by
  an unknown ETI and seeded throughout the galaxy in
  Bracewell probes. The Exsurgent virus is self-morphing and
  can infect both computer systems and biological creatures.
■ Extrasolar: Outside the solar system.
