■ Factors: The alien ambassadorial race that deals with
  transhumanity. Also called Brokers.
■ The Fall: The apocalypse; the singularity and wars that
  nearly brought about the downfall of transhumanity.
■ Farcasting: Intrasolar communication utilizing classical
  communication technologies (radio, laser, etc.) and
  quantum teleportation.
■ Farhauler: Long distance space shipper.
■ Firewall: The secret cross-faction conspiracy that works
  to protect transhumanity from “existential threats” (risks
  to transhumanity's continued existence).
■ Flatlander: Someone born or used to living on a planet
  or moon with gravity.
■ Flats: Baseline humans (not genetically modified). Also
  called norms.
■ Flexbot: A shape-changing synthmorph also capable of
  joining together with other flexbots in a modular fashion
  to create larger shapes.
■ Forking: Copying an ego. Not all forks are full copies.
 AKA backups.
■ FTL: Faster-Than-Light.
■ Fury: A transhuman combat morph.
■ Gatecrashers: Explorers who take their chances using a
  Pandora gate to go somewhere previously unexplored.
■ Genehacker: Someone who manipulates genetic code to
  create genetic modifications or even new life.
■ Ghost: A transhuman combat morph optimized for
  stealth and infiltration.
■ Ghost-riding: The act of carrying an infomorph in a
  special implant module inside your head.
■ Greeks: Trojan asteroids or moons that share the same
  orbit as a larger planet or moon, but are 60 degrees
  ahead in the orbit at the L4 Lagrange point. The term
  Greeks normally refers to the asteroids orbiting around
 Jupiter's L4 point. See also “Trojans.”
■ Habtech: A habitat technician.
■ Heliopause: The point where pressure from the solar wind
  balances with the interstellar medium (about 100 AU out).
■ Hibernoid: A transhuman modified for hibernation, for
  extensive travel in space.
■ Iceteroid: An asteroid made from mostly ice rather than
  rock or metals.
■ Iktomi: The name given to the mysterious alien race
  whose relics have been found beyond the Pandora Gates.
■ Indentures: Indentured servants who have contracted
  their labor to a hypercorp or other authority, usually in
  exchange for a morph.
■ Infolife: Artificial general intelligences and seed AIs.
■ Infomorph: A digitized ego; a virtual body. Also known
  as datamorphs, uploads, backups.
■ Infugee: “Infomorph refugee,” or someone who left
  everything behind on Earth during the Fall—even their
  own body.
■ Isolates: Those who live in isolated communities far
  outside the system (in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud);
  aka outsters, fringers.
■ Jamming: The act of “becoming” a teleoperated drone
  thanks to XP technology. Also sometimes applied to
  accesing the real-time XP feed from lifeloggers and others.
■ Kuiper Belt: A region of space extending from Neptune's
  orbit out to about 55 AU, lightly populated with asteroids,
  comets, and dwarf planets.
■ Lagrange Point: One of five areas in respect to a
  small planetary body orbiting a larger one in which the
  gravitational forces of those two bodies are neutralized.
  Lagrange points are considered stable and ideal locations
  for habitats.
■ Lifelog: A recording of one's entire life experience, made
  possible due to near unlimited computer memory.
■ Lost Generation: In an effort to repopulate post-Fall, a
  generation of children were reared using forced-growth
  methods. The results were disastrous: many died or went
  insane, and the rest were stigmatized.
■ Main Belt: The main asteroid belt, a torus ring orbiting
  between Mars and Jupiter.
■ Meme: A viral idea.
■ Mentons: Transhumans optimized for mental and
  cognitive ability.
■ Mercurials: The non-human sentient elements of the
  transhuman “family,” including AGIs and uplifted animals.
■ Mesh: The omnipresent wireless mesh data network.
 Also used as a verb (to mesh) and adjective (meshed or
  unmeshed).
■ Mesh ID: The unique signature attached to one's mesh
  activity.
■ Microgravity: Zero-g or near weightless environments.
■ Mist: The clouds of AR data that sometimes fog up your
  perception/displays.
■ Morph: A physical body. Aka suit, jacket, sleeve, shell, form.
■ Muse: Personal AI helper programs.
■ Nanobot: A nano-scale machine.
■ Nano-ecology: Pro-tech ecological movement.
■ Nanoswarm: A mass of tiny nanobots unleashed into an
  environment.
■ Neo-Avians: Uplifted ravens and gray parrots.
■ Neogenesis: The creation of new life forms via genetic
  manipulation and biotechnology.
■ Neo-Hominids: Uplifted chimpanzees, gorillas, and
  orangutans.
■ Neotenics: Transhumans modified to retain a child-like
  form.
■ Novacrab: A pod created from genetically-engineered
  spider crab stock.
■ Olympian: A transhuman biomorph modified for athleti-
  cism and endurance.
■ O'Neill Cylinder: A soda-can shaped habitat, spun for
  gravity.
■ Oort Cloud: The spherical “cloud” of comets that
  surrounds the solar system out to about one light-year
  from the sun.
