■ PAN: Personal area network. The network created when
  you slave all of your minor personal electronics to your
  ecto or mesh inserts.
■ Pandora Gates: The wormhole gateways left behind by
  the TITANs.
■ Pods: Mixed biological-synthetic morphs. Pod clones are
  force-grown and feature computer brains. Also known as
  bio-bots, skinjobs, replicants. From “pod people.”
■ Posthuman: A human or transhuman individual or
  species that has been genetically or cognitively modified
  so extensively as to no longer be human (a step beyond
  transhuman). Aka parahuman.
■ Prometheans: A group of transhuman-friendly seed AIs
  that were created by the Lifeboat Project (precursors to
  the argonauts) years before the TITANs became self-
  aware and that (mostly) avoided Exsurgent infection. The
  Prometheans secretly back Firewall and work to defeat
  existential threats.
■ Proxies: Members of the Firewall internal structure.
■ Psi: Parapsychological powers acquired due to infection
  by the Watts-MacLeod strain of Exsurgent virus.
■ Reaper: A warbot synthmorph.
■ Reclaimers: A transhuman faction that seeks to lift the
  interdiction and reclaim Earth.
■ Redneck: A rural Martian. See Barsoomian. Aka Reds.
■ Reinstantiated: Refugees from Earth who escaped
  only as bodiless infomorphs, but who have since been
  resleeved.
■ Resleeving: Changing bodies, or being downloaded into
  a new one. Also called remorphing, reincarnation, shifting,
  rebirthing.
■ Rusters: Biomorphs optimized for life on Mars.
■ Scorching: Hostile programs that can damage or affect
  cyberbrains.
■ Scum: The nomadic faction of space punks/gypsies that
  travel from station to station in heavily-modified barges
  or swarms of ships. Notorious for being a roving black
  market.
■ Seed AI: An AGI that is capable of recursive self-improve-
  ment, allowing it to reach god-like levels of intelligence.
■ Sentinels: Agents of Firewall.
■ Shell: A synthetic physical morph. Aka synthmorph.
■ Simulmorph: The avatar you use in VR simulspace
  programs.
■ Simulspace: Full-immersion virtual reality environments.
■ Singularity: A point of rapid, exponential, and recursive
  technological progress, beyond which the future becomes
  impossible to predict. Often used to refer to the ascension
  of seed AI to god-like levels of intelligence.
■ Singularity Seeker: People who pursue relics and
  evidence of the TITANs or other possible avenues to
  super-intelligence, either to learn more about it or to
  become part of a super-intelligence themselves.
■ Skin: A biological physical morph. Aka meat, flesh.
■ Skinning: Changing your perceived environment via
  augmented reality programming.
■ Sleight: A psi power.
■ Slitheroid: A snake-like robotic synthmorph.
■ Smart Animals: Partially-uplifted animal species (includ-
  ing dogs, cats, rats, and pigs). Some other large smart
  animals (whales, elephants) are nearly extinct.
■ Spime: Meshed, self-aware, location-aware devices.
■ Splicers: Humans that are genetically modified to
  eliminate genetic diseases and some other traits. Also
  known as genefixed, cleangenes, tweaks.
■ Swarmanoid: A synthetic morph composed from a
  swarm of tiny insect-sized robots.
■ Sylphs: Transhuman biomorphs with exotic good looks.
■ Synthmorph: Synthetic morphs. Robotic shells possessed
  by transhuman egos.
■ Synths: A specific type of synthmorph. Synths are
  standard androids/gynoids; robots that are designed to
  look humanoid, though they are usually noticeably not
  human.
■ Teleoperation: Remote control.
■ Titanian: Someone from Titan, a moon of Saturn.
■ TITANs: The human-created, recursively-improving,
  military seed AIs that underwent a hard-takeoff singular-
  ity and prompted the Fall. Original military designation
  was TITAN: Total Information Tactical Awareness Network.
■ Torus: A donut-shaped habitat, spun for gravity.
■ Transgenic: Containing genetic traits from other species.
■ Transhuman: An extensively modified human.
■ Trojans: Asteroids or moons that share the same orbit
  as a larger planet or moon, but follow about 60 degrees
  ahead or behind at the L4 and L5 Lagrange points. The
  term Trojans normally refers to the asteroids orbiting at
 Jupiter's Lagrange points, but Mars, Saturn, Neptune, and
  other bodies also have Trojans. See also “Greeks.”
■ Uplifting: Genetically transforming an animal species to
  sapience.
■ Vacworker: Space laborer.
■ Vapor: A failed mind emulation or crippled fork/info-
  morph (from vaporware).
■ VPNs: Virtual private networks. Networks that operate
  within the mesh, usually encrypted for privacy/security.
■ VR: Virtual Reality. Imposing an artificially-constructed
  hyper-real reality over one's physical senses.
■ X-Caster: Someone who transmits/sells XP recordings of
  their experiences.
■ Xenomorph: Alien life form.
■ Xer: As in “X-er”—someone who is addicted or
  obsessed with XP. Sometime used to refer to people
  making XP as well.
■ XP: Experience Playback. Experiencing someone else's
  sensory input (in real-time or recorded). Also called
  experia, sim, simsense, playback.
■ X-Risk: Existential risk. Something that threatens the
  very existence of transhumanity.
■ Zeroes: People without wireless mesh access. Common
  with some indentures.
