IPSE■A TIME OF ECLIPSE■A TIME OF EC



E OF ECLIPSE
  This chapter provides a complete overview of the
  Eclipse Phase universe. It starts with a history, goes
  into detail on the setting, covers factions, and then
  wraps up with a system gazetteer.



The following is a transcript of a recovered au-
diofile recovered after the catastrophic decom-
pression event on Walther-Pembroke Station.
The audiofile is believed to have been created
by Donovan Astrides and to be a summation of
his unpublished work A People's History of an
Unfortunate Universe.                         ■




  A PEOPLE'S HISTORY OF AN
  UNFORTUNATE UNIVERSE
  [Sounds of scratching on the microphone, creaking of
  furniture, the noise of a woman clearing her throat]
     What?
     [Indistinct murmuring]
     Fuck you. I do this how the fuck I want, though
  it was nice of you to put me in this nice young
  woman's body.
     [Sounds of hands running along fabric]
     Does my vulgarity shock you, corporate lackey? No
  matter, I'm sure you can edit it out for your proles.
  Now—you asked about my book? Is it a history book
  you ask? No. It is an anti-history book. I shall tell you
  about the future.
     [Mumbling, questioning tone]
     What does it hold? The future, you mean?
     [Indistinct “Yes.”]
     No. I don't think you care about the future. What
  you really want to know is: will you get the future
  you want? And that is an easy question to answer. No.
  No, you will not get the future you want. Because you
  are stupid enough to ask this stupid question about
  the future.
     [Silent pause]
     I remember reading a scan of an old real print
  comic once. The character in it was railing against
  the imaginary people of his imaginary world, taking
  them to task about their dissatisfaction with the
  future they lived in. But it was really aimed at the
  stupid people who wanted their stupid little futures
  and who were too stupid to see that the future is
  now. It's always now. Except it isn't anymore. The
  TITANs changed that. The future is now yesterday,
  and last week, and ten years ago. Especially ten
  years ago. But the future is also back on poor old
  Earth—it's a legacy of where we've been and what
  has come before.
PSE■A TIME OF ECLIPSE■A TIME OF EC
                      A

                                                               3


    Do they teach you history on Venus, in your sealed
 compounds and resort aerostats? No, don't open
 your mouth, I could really care less what they teach
 you. For it is most certainly lies. I've lived in the inner
 system. I know the rules and the deceits told in the
 name of civil order and “national security.”
    Nations! Ha! Even at the onset of the 21st century,
 nations were starting to go into decline. It just took
 everyone a while to realize they were obsolete.
    Do you remember the great nations of the world?
 Are you old enough to remember how they sat around
 and debated whether the major climate shifts they
 were creating were even real? Even when many of
 them agreed that something needed to be done, none
 of them stood up to do it. The leaders of the world
 carried on with business as usual, secure in their
 privilege, as droughts ravaged Africa and Central
 Asia, Europe froze, and severe weather wreaked havoc
 everywhere. People across the globe were feeling the
 pinch of starvation or rampant epidemics, but the
 leading nations were more concerned about the refu-
 gees pouring over their borders and polluting their lily
 white paradises with their customs and languages and
 willingness to work for a pittance just to survive.
    The wars over oil and energy were only worsened
 by wars over the weather and water that followed.
 Unstable regimes rose and fell or were pushed over
 the edge, all in pursuit of precious liquids. The great
 nation states transformed into fortresses, steeled
 against the twin threats of the barbarians threatening
 them on the outside and the masses of their poor and
 dispossessed internally, all of them wanting to come
 in only for a little drink.
    You know, I've actually heard some conservatives
 refer to that period as a golden age, a peak time for
 the corporations and the rich. It's certainly true that
 it was a golden age for repression—and profits. If you
 were in that lucky fraction of a percent of the popula-
 tion who could afford it, it was certainly a good time,
 but for the majority of humanity it was a time of hor-
 rors. Global inequality was larger than ever before.
 Robots were taking jobs away from human hands.
    This was a time of radicalization for many. Failing
 governments no longer supplied people's basic needs.
 The globalized poor turned to local tribes, fundamen-
 talist groups, political radicals, and criminal networks
 for the means to survive. Insurgent groups flourished,
 but they depended on the black market to survive,
 and soon their leaders were more concerned with
 making money than making change.
    The nation states, as always, resorted to repres-
 sion. Civil liberties were restricted and surveillance
 increased. Automated weapons systems were de-
 ployed first against guerrillas and terror cells, and
 then against agitators and demonstrators. I remem-
 ber the first time I saw those police drones, at a
