demonstration in support of a worker's strike in Long
Beach. The drones ordered us to disperse once, only
once, before they opened fire with their “nonlethal”
weapons. Nonlethal my ass. Three people died that
day and dozens were injured. The mainstream media
ignored it even if the bloggers didn't.
   Meanwhile, the privileged elites continued to pros-
per. Longevity treatments expanded lifespans—for
those who could afford it. Major crackdowns swept
up off-brand pharma and bootleg procedures by
pioneering biochemists, even while worldwide life ex-
pectancies dropped for the first time in decades. Why
extend the lives of so many poor people, when expert
systems as smart as any human could be built in a
fraction of the time it would take to educate an actual
person, and robotics and drone technologies allowed
menial jobs to be turned over to uncomplaining and
unpaid labor. And the rich had their high-pricetag
designer chimeric pets to keep them company anyway.
   Not all of the upper classes were wallowing in
opulence while the planet around them starved and
drowned. A few were looking ahead at the changes on
the horizon, scheming how to stake their claim. Some
of these worked to expand their dominion, building
a space elevator in sub-Saharan Africa and sending
robotic probes out to map the solar system in detail.
They even founded the first stations on Mars and
Luna then, more than fifty years before the Fall.
   The ecopocalypse wasn't going away, however, no
matter how much those in power tried to ignore it.
Severe winters and draughts continued to pound at us.
Rising ocean levels devastated coastlines worldwide
with massive flooding. A few last-ditch efforts to un-
dertake mega-scale geoengineering projects created as
many problems as they fixed. These were viewed with
cynicism anyway, as some were thinly-disguised test
runs for terraforming techniques being prepared for
off-world deployment.
   It often seemed as though the eyes of the fortunate
were no longer focused on the world around them,
but rather on the heavens above them. The comple-
tion of the first space elevator and the first mass driver
on our moon kicked off a new space race and the
competition was on to stake claims around the solar
system. All this new expansion was powered by the
first mass-produced efficient fusion power plants and
the establishment of Helium-3 mining enterprises.
   Back on Earth, though, the hammer finally fell. In-
surgents adopted fifth generation warfare techniques,
sharing open source methods of resistance, utilizing
swarming attacks on critical systempunkts. People
crushed under years of oppression rose up in these
opportunities and smashed at the state and corporate
apparatus that had held them down. Nation after
nation fell to insurgencies manned by those who had
fought in thousands of little wars over fuel, ponds,
and bread crusts.
   Most states fought back by becoming more totali-
tarian and repressive, but the tide of rebellion spread
off world as a series of outposts and stations declared
themselves in sympathy with their earthbound com-
patriots and announced a manifesto for a more hu-
manistic approach to solar expansion. Even numerous
scientists and engineers, who had previously worked
as pawns in corporate expansions, adopted a techno-
progressive stance. That's how the argonauts were
born, you know, taking their name from a previous
group of scientists who advised the US government
and Pentagon on science and policy called the Jasons.
Faced with reprisals from their corporate masters, a
number of argonauts defected from the hypercorps,
in some cases taking key resources and research with
them, while others went underground.
   This is when the hypercorps really took off, though,
those shark-like bastards. They let the nation-states
and lumbering multinationals of old take the brunt
of the global rage and assault. They took advantage
of the chaos to slip free of the old moral and ethical
restraints on human experimentation and from the
legal purview of the nationalities that had birthed
them. They embraced the opportunities of numerous
new technologies and the drive into space. It was their
research labs that cooked up the first sentient artificial
intelligences, the first genegineered human clones, and
the first true uplifts, chimps and dolphins brought
into awareness as corporate experiments and slaves.
  As the last of the old states became increasingly
desperate to cling to their power and land, the hy-
percorps extended a helping hand. They offered debt
bondage terms to those who were willing to sign over
their rights and humanity for a trip off world, to work
as indentured servants on corporate colonies and sta-
tions. Hundreds of thousands took the offer as an al-
ternative to the crushing poverty and chaos on Earth.
The business of resource exploitation exploded across
the solar system, as stations were established as far
out as the Kuiper Belt. Voices that spoke of respecting
biodiversity and natural ecologies were ignored as
the hypercorps toiled to reshape various planets and
moons to their will.
   This was the state of things until about 20 years
before the Fall. Though many of the old oppressor
states had been struck down, new ones arose, and
the various global insurgencies oscillated between
making radical changes and falling into the same
old tribal warfare traps. Reactionary religious and
political forces on Earth also railed against the hyper-
corps' agenda, resulting in some terrorist attacks and
sabotage strikes, and culminating in a failed attempt
to disable the space elevator by an Islamist suicide
cell. The hypercorps were quick to retaliate, ordering
an orbital bombardment using high-density objects
against the headquarters and compounds of several
key opposition leaders. Though effective in decapitat-
ing several terrorist networks, the mass destruction
sparked outrage against the hypercorps, creating a
deeper rift between Earth and off-world interests.
   The hypercorps remained out of reach, how-
ever, though they were not completely immune from
Earth's troubles. The workers and colonists brought
