from Earth transported many of their ethnic, political,
and socio-tribal grudges with them, leading to several
outbreaks of violence in habitats and orbital stations.
Some also harbored allegiances opposed to hypercorp
interests, illustrated by isolated acts of preservation-
ist sabotage and religious terrorist attacks. Various
criminal networks also came along for the ride, ex-
panding their black markets and vice trades wherever
humans went.
   As the hypercorps expanded, so too did their po-
litical opponents: the anarchists, socialists, argonauts
and others who worked diligently to establish their
own independent presence, mostly in the outer system,
further from hypercorp reach. The hypercorps even
contributed to this growth by sending their criminals
and undesirable elements into exile beyond Mars.
   Both sides invested heavily in research and new
technologies. Advances in biotech, nanotech, AI, and
cognitive science were now moving so rapidly that
major breakthroughs were made on a yearly basis.
Developments in one field created a recursive boost
in the others, creating a feedback loop that spawned
immense technological improvements. Off-world,
genetic modifications were widely adopted, and new
transhuman adaptations became a common sight. We
even created new synthetic life forms that were part
biological and part robotic. Despite some being so
repulsed by this development that they dubbed these
new types of beings “pod people,” it certainly didn't
stop pods from being rapidly absorbed into corporate
workforces and brothels, nor did many people care
enough to support claims that, as sapient beings, pods
should have their own civil rights.
   Two breakthroughs in this period deserve spe-
cific mention, not least because of their impact on our
human—now transhuman—society. The development
of the first nanotech assemblers signaled a paradigm
shift for economics. Available only to the upper
strata of the hypercorps at first, these elites jealously
guarded these machines, capable of building almost
anything from the atoms up. They placed all sorts of
restrictions on their usage and availability, claiming
that the capability to construct drugs, weapons, or
other restricted items was a security risk that required
them to be strictly controlled. Open source advocates
promptly set to work undermining blueprint controls
and seeding their own open source designs, of course.
Likewise, within months, criminals and anarchists
liberated their own assemblers, and suddenly an eco-
nomic conflict was born. Some were put to use feed-
ing the black market trade, while others were used
to establish habitats and colonies with post-scarcity
economies that no longer relied on wealth, property,
or greed.
   At the same time came the ability to map the
human brain and digitally emulate the mind and
memories, making “uploading” possible—followed
closely by the ability to download back into a sepa-
rate human brain of course. The already long-lived
hypercorp masters no longer had to fear death by
accident or injury. This technology also made its way
into the hands of others, despite the costs. Experi-
mentation with other bodies—both biological and
synthetic—became a new playground for culture.
And let's not forget those who willingly shook off the
shackles of the flesh to experience the virtual life and
dive deep into their own dreamscape realities.
   While we all enjoyed our new toys, though, Earth,
poor Earth, continued to die a slow death. I can still
recall the speculation that it might take centuries for
the Earth to totally slide into ecological devastation. It
was frustrating, everywhere you turned it seemed that
someone was lamenting the state of the motherworld,
but no one wanted to do anything. It was too expen-
sive, or too far away, or too dangerous. We all have
blood on our hands from that time. We stood by and
watched from our places in orbit as the world burned
around our brothers and sisters. We thought we had
time, we thought the world was slowly dying and that
we could find the cure. We didn't plan on the TITANs.
   We all remember the Fall. It was only ten years
ago, but I never cease to be amazed at how confused
people's memories are of that time. Part of that is
propaganda perpetuated by people like you, of course,
and part of it is that most of us are afraid to really
look back and examine how we humans managed to
fuck it up so badly.
   We like to pretend that the TITANs exploded on
the scene, wrecked up the place, and then disappeared
as quickly as they appeared. The truth, as always, is
more complex. We claim to know that the TITANs
somehow evolved by accident from a military netwar
system, or so the theory goes. That is what their name
means: an acronym for Total Information Tactical
Awareness Networks. No one knows for sure where
these first seed AIs came from, though—or if they do,
they're keeping quiet. Perhaps the TITANs were inten-
tionally designed to be a recursively improving, self-
aware digital intelligence. Perhaps the military boffins
thought they could keep such an intelligence under
their control, and that it would give them the edge
they needed. Perhaps there was only one at first, and
it quickly created hundreds if not thousands of copies
of itself. No one even seems to know how many of
them there were.
   According to the written history—vetted by the hy-
percorps natch—we now know that the TITANs took
several days after they “woke up” to scan the world
around them, to learn about us. In their initial stage
they were relatively benign, leeching network power
and resources only where there was enough to spare
and extending their senses beyond their cradle on
Earth. Perhaps they were absorbing everything they
could to understand us. Perhaps they were indifferent.
Or maybe they really were planning to destroy us, as
the vids all say.
   I remember this time. I remember that when this
new round of conflicts re-ignited on Earth, there
was no word of anything about seed AIs or TITANs.
For months and months, it was a simple escalation
