of hostilities. It started with claims of netwar opera-
tions and major intrusions, sparking some alarm and
retaliatory attacks. Aggressive stances led to incrimi-
nations, then border conflicts and raids, followed by
missile strikes and outright hostilities. Old grudges
and sleeping enemies suddenly awoke and turned
their renewed wrath against old foes. Brush wars,
corporate rivalries, and ideological disputes flared up
as insurgencies and rebellions were suddenly every-
where. At the time, it seemed like a not-so-unusual
spate of violence had taken a drastic turn and was
rapidly spiraling out of control.
   According to the party line, this was all a carefully-
concerted effort, the first stage in the TITANs plans.
Perhaps it was, though I remember some military of-
ficials once claiming that the TITANs were brought
online because of this violence, and not before then—
an opinion that was quickly silenced. Then again,
maybe we really were played—played by greater in-
telligences who could barely be bothered to deal with
us themselves when they knew we were more than
willing to murder and annihilate each other.
   When the first reports of strange automatic facto-
ries cranking out large numbers of robotic weapons
systems broke, no one knew who to blame, but clearly
something was wrong. This was a turning point, a
chance for humanity to realize that we collectively
faced a new enemy, but the finger-pointing and direct
conflict continued. Even when the first open attacks
by the TITANs came in earnest, crashing major sys-
tems, taking control of critical infrastructures, and
wreaking havoc and destruction, we treated it as a
new front in the war, and never stopped taking shots
at each other.
   There is still debate over whether we should have
tried to talk to the TITANs, whether they would have
been willing to listen to us, whether they even saw us
as something more than we see rats and roaches and
other forms of vermin. But it's all academic. The fact
is we didn't. The people who made the decisions, the
ones who had to put it all on the line at the time, saw
the TITANs as a threat. And they acted accordingly,
trying to purge them from their systems or capture
them for future study.
   The philosopher Thomas Hobbes once spoke of the
war of all against all. Whatever he imagined could not
have been anything close to the conflict ignited by the
TITANs. We killed ourselves by the millions, wield-
ing the nuclear fire and the silent death of bioplagues
indiscriminately. Among this carnage walked the
TITANs, taking control of our machines as though
we were children, harvesting millions of minds with
forced uploads for unknown purposes. Every strike
we launched against the TITANs was met with untold
disaster and ruin, all our artifice and devices turned
against us in our moment of need.
   The Fall was a horror. Factories sprang up like a
blight in the most ravaged and deserted places on
