Earth, pumping out legions of dread war machines.
Advanced nanoswarms—far beyond our own capa-
bilities—infested everywhere, mutating to deal with
any threat they encountered. Biological nanovirii
ripped through human populations, inflicting irre-
versible neurological damage. Potent infowar worms
penetrated even hardened systems, shredding our
crucial networks with ease. Prisoner populations were
rounded up for forced mind emulations, suffering a
luckier fate than those who were merely decapitated
by head-collecting drones or pierced by robots with
neuro-scanning proboscises. Neuropathic virii turned
some humans into pawns of the TITANs, turning
them against the rest of us. Other reports spoke of
strange, alien happenings and unimaginable terrors.
We found ourselves fighting a rearguard action against
coming extinction. The plot of a hundred novels and
movies made manifest in our lifetimes, the doom of
transhumanity at the hands of the machines.
   For over a year they stalked and destroyed us.
There seemed to be no hurry on their part to bring us
to an end, and why would there have been? Nothing
we did affected them. They were data and information,
they were thought and impulse, they were everywhere
and nowhere, and there was nothing we could do that
they could not turn back against us. Their influence
spread outward from Earth, with outbreaks in orbit,
on Luna, Mars, and many other places. Everywhere
we had a foothold, the TITANs followed.
   Perhaps you remember that point when it became
clear that transhumanity might not survive. I do. Mil-
lions must have seen the signs. And so the great dias-
pora began, the teeming masses doing whatever they
could to flee Earth. Ships were diverted, even built, to
help people escape. Those who could not buy their
way off the planet did their best to send their digital
backups, in the dim hope they could acquire a new
body. Perhaps one in ten escaped.
   You might hear that we banded together to stop
the threat, that in our darkest hour we forgave an-
cient grudges and simmering hatreds in the face of
extinction. That would be a lie in the face of the ten
thousand shot down over Buenos Aires by North
American forces as they sought to escape, or the
compromising of network security on over two dozen
habitats in Lagrange orbits by corporate competitors
as their rivals strove to fight off a TITANs attack. We
were just as gleeful to destroy ourselves.
   Then, as quickly as they appeared, the TITANs
vanished. Over the course of a week, the attacks and
disturbances trailed off and then stopped but for an
occasional outbreak. The retributions and attacks by
our own kind continued for a few more months, but
the damage we did to ourselves was nothing com-
pared to what the TITANs had done.
   In the aftermath, we stood among the smoking
ruins of transhumanity and surveyed all that had
been lost. Of all the billions that existed before
the Fall, fewer than one in every eight survived,
and of those fewer still retained a corporeal form.
Nevertheless, the surviving habitats and stations
were overcrowded, with tensions high. Vast numbers
of infugees circulated in storage, as there were simply
not enough bodies on hand to accommodate them
all. Some were placed in permanent storage, where
they remain forgotten. Others were shunted into
virtual reality, given no choice but to live their lives
in simulated environments. A lucky few were given
the chance to work as indentured servants, often
to build new habitats, working on the promise of a
body of their own someday. You've no doubt seen
them, working in cheap mass produced synthmorph
bodies in menial or dangerous tasks kept out of sight
of the rest of us.
   Those left dead or bereft of a body were the least
of our problems. Our war with the TITANs had left
the Earth a smoking, irradiated, toxic wasteland, still
populated by dangerous machines and plagues. The
newly formed Planetary Consortium, composed of
hypercorp interests among the Martian and Lunar
colonies, placed Earth and the space around it under
quarantine. The official reason is that it's for safety
reasons, allegedly to keep any remaining threats from
escaping Earth's confines. Or perhaps we could not
stand to look at our homeworld in such a state and
face what we had done to ourselves.
   Even now, ten years later, we are told that the Earth
is dangerous, that it holds risks and surprises. That's
partly true, I believe—there are surprises alright, but
the Planetary Consortium wants them all for itself.
   [Rustling noises, murmurs]
   Of course I'm talking about a Pandora Gate. The
one the TITANs left behind on Saturn's moon was
just the first. You're a fool if you think that there are
only five in the entire system. I'd be willing to bet
nearly anything that there's one down there on dear
old Earth.
   Have you ever seen a Gate? No? Of course not.
The hypercorps keep them locked down. Not like out
in the wild, wild outer system. Sure, the Gatekeeper
Corp lets anyone with a death wish and the minimum
training take a jaunt through the original on Pandora,
but if you're lucky enough to come back, they own
everything you find on the other side. I suppose it's
the chance for a certain type of adrenaline junkie “to
boldly go” and all that nonsense.
   The extrasolar colonies—now, those are an all new
frontier. You inner system types are so predictable
with your rush to colonize and expand and own
everything, as if the universe is just there for your
rich overlords to claim for themselves. I expect your
extrasolar colonies are expanding quite nicely, given
the sheer number of poor debt-conscripted souls you
toss through. You probably have grand schemes of
building galactic empires. Us. Transhumanity. A ga-
lactic civilization.
   Well, galactic squatters at least. That was made
clear when the solemn crossing guards of the cosmos
showed up and issued us a warning that we were
dabbling in Things What Ought Not To Have Been.
