  Maybe the Factors are telling us the truth, maybe they
  are acting as ambassadors for a collection of space-
  faring alien species that want to warn us away from
  Forbidden Technology—y'know, the technology we've
  already been burned by and of course have no plans
  to actually abandon. Think about the Two Com-
  mandments they have given us: thou shalt not create
  self-improving AI, and thou shalt not use the Pandora
  Gates. Oops. Do you think they know? About what
  happened with the TITANs? That even we don't know
  where they went and that we're kind of afraid to find
  out? Surely they know that we've been using the gates
  and have spread beyond our little backwater, and
  maybe that's their real fear. But why do we even listen
  to what some highly-evolved slime mold tells us to
  do anyway?
     Taking risks, that's the price of progress, no? Let's
  face it, we need some hope. We need a new Earth to
  replace the one we destroyed, a place where we can go
  and breed like rabbits and fuck it all up over and over
  again. We need to know that we can expand beyond
  this solar system, because right now it's feeling a little
  confining, like we could be easily trapped and wiped
  out if the TITANs ever return. We need to know that
  we have a future. We need to know that we can make
  it through our own efforts. That we won't do our-
  selves in on our own.
     The Lost proved that. It was a noble objective, to
  speed a new generation of children to adulthood, but
  the process was flawed. Taking force-grown clones,
  raising them in VR, and then dumping them into adult
  bodies after they've only been alive for a few years
  of objective time—but over eighteen years of their
  subjective time? An entire childhood, having only
  each other and AIs for company. It's enough to fuck
  anyone up. It was a grand experiment, but it failed,
  and now we have another reminder of our failures
  living among us.
     That's us, in all our glory. Ten years after the Fall
  and we remain a broken, squabbling mess, jailed by
  slime molds, beaten by uppity software, and yet our
  own worst enemies. Spreading out from a home we
  don't even have any more. Our numbers reduced and
  dwindling further with each passing day. Who will
  save us? We don't even want to save ourselves most of
  the time. Or so it seems.
     But if we don't, there's no future. And I, for one,
  have not lived this fucking long to give up now. You,
  me, we're effectively immortal. The entire galaxy is
  waiting out there for us. We'd be stupid not to go
  see it.



End Transcript                                        ■
THE SOLAR SYSTEM
AFTER THE FALL
Before the Fall, the solar system had a population of
approximately eight billion, with all but five million
of these people living on Earth. The Fall wiped out
almost ninety-five percent of transhumanity, and
today the population of the solar system is slightly less
than half a billion, with almost all of these transhu-
mans living off the Earth. The lifestyles of these people
were almost unimaginable thirty years earlier—the
vast majority are immortals living in sealed habitats
on hostile alien planets or in sealed space colonies, the
largest of which hold more than a million inhabitants
and are many kilometers long.
   In this vastly changed setting with its vastly
changed inhabitants, the core concerns of humanity
remain much the same. People seek both material
abundance and social status, and they wrap them-
selves in various public and private ceremonies. Like
generations of humans before them, transhumans
separate themselves into different cultures and sub-
cultures, all of which enjoy a wide variety of physical
and virtual entertainments. Politics and economics
remain vitally important and as always, those who are
wealthy, powerful, and famous have a large degree of
control over the lives of those who are poor, relatively
powerless, and unknown.



TRANSHUMANITY
Humanity as a concept has been replaced with
transhumanity. Most people now alive left Earth as
infomorphs and were subsequently resleeved into new
morphs. Bodies are things that can be modified and
replaced, much as someone can alter or exchange a
suit of clothing. Identity is centered in the mind, which
can exist as a disembodied infomorph living in vir-
tual worlds or dwelling in a vast array of strange and
exotic morphs. While there are bioconservatives who
resist these many changes to identity and physicality,
they are very much in the minority.
  To most people, transhumanity has also been ex-
panded in scope to factor in non-human persons such
as AGIs and uplifts, though the rights and status of
these sentients is sometimes contested.
  As transhumans continue to absorb the ramifica-
tions of this new way of life, they face a new crop
of problems and issues. Two of the largest and most
important are the increase in inequality and the splin-
tering and separation of transhumanity into many
different clades.

INEQUALITY
The technologies first developed in the decade before
the Fall and refined in the decade after its end have
transformed humanity. In all but the most backwards,
impoverished, and repressive regions of the solar
system, the vast majority of humanity is smarter,
