  require those living in them to choose from a very lim-
  ited range of morphs. Sometimes, though, this separation
  is ideological in nature, such as the rise of groups like the
  ultimates (p. 82) or some of the separatist uplift commu-
  nities that seek to define their own space separate from
  human cultures.
     There are dozens of specialist morphs and an even
  greater number of habitats or other settlements that
  are inhabited largely or exclusively by individuals
  using a single type of morph or a limited number of
  specialist morphs. In the asteroid belt and in the rings
  and smaller moons of Saturn, there are more than one
  hundred habitats that do not rotate, with all portions
  in zero or near-zero gravity. The inhabitants typically
  use bouncer or novacrab morphs, along with a small
  number of synthetic morphs and other pods.
     There is also a vast number of other habitats that
  are segregated in various other ways, including ones
  where all permanent residents are uplifts inhabiting



FIRST CONTACT: THE FAC
Ironically, the first contact be- The Factors mad
tween transhumanity and alien veiled warnings
life was made by a group of concern over c
isolates with no interest in the logical developm
rest of transhumanity. A brinker unrestrained artifi
doomsday cult habitat in the They have refused
Neptunian Trojans, patiently with digital enti
waiting out the prophesized off negotiation
return of the TITANs, suffered a currently engag
severe life support systems failure. opment or utiliz
Not expecting anyone to respond Gates. The Facto
to their distress signals, they that they were
were simultaneously relieved and watching humani
shocked to have an alien starship but chose to wait
come to their aid.                    … implying some
   Shortly after this event, three the singularity.
unknown ships of alien design            Dealing with m
simultaneously approached Mars, the primary relat
Luna, and Titan, logging on to the Factors to tra
local networks to announce their commercial one.
presence and peaceful intentions. often dismissive
Though their presence initially ity's technologic
raised alarm and panic, their rescue they are intereste
of the brinkers and assurances of development and
non-hostility allowed cooler heads particularly in th
to prevail. Coming just three years well as our art,
after the silent hostility of the ture. They rema
TITANs, the new aliens were pleas- about their own
antly non-threatening.                other xenomorp
   Quickly dubbed “Factors,” both have on occasion
because of their claims to act as facts of unusual
ambassadors for an assortment liar function. It is
of alien civilizations and because that these are si
of their interesting biology, initial limited value and
communications between spe- are careful not to
cies were confusing and jumbled. of true worth to
   one of the various transgenic morphs, like the octo-
   morph or neo-avian morphs. Other habitats are only
   open to residents with various enhanced morphs like
   exalts or mentons. There are even habitats where all
   residents must inhabit morphs that are all clones of
   one another. In almost all of these habitats, residents
   are free to add whatever augmentations they wish to
   their morphs, but some habitats forbid residents from
   changing their morph's external appearance, and in-
   dividuals who violate this rule are forced to leave the
   habitat if they refuse to reverse these changes.
      Some habitats do away with the necessity of
   both life support and gravity. In these locations, all
   residents are infomorphs who either inhabit their own
   synth bodies or, in a few very eccentric cases, where
   all of the inhabitants are infomorphs who spend most
   of their existence in the habitat's central computers.
   When they need to interact with the physical world,
   these infomorphs are free to use one of the many



 ORS
a number of        particularly anything that might
 d expressed       drastically affect our growth.
 ain techno-          Biologically, the Factors appear
s, particularly    to be some sort of evolved slime
 l intelligence.   mold colony. As far as is known,
 tirely to deal    they communicate purely by
  and broken       chemical signals and receptors,
with anyone        requiring any interactions with
 n AGI devel-      transhumanity to be computer-
 the Pandora       mediated. Several different types
have implied       of Factors have been sighted,
ware of and        implying that they engage in
 or some time,     heavy biological modification.
make contact          Factor starcraft appear to be
 plicit fear of    lighthuggers capable of near-
                   light speeds. Due to the fre-
  iple factions,   quency of their visitations to the
  hip between      solar system (2–3 times a year),
humanity is a      however, it is speculated that
 ugh they are      they either have a nearby base, or
  transhuman-      that they possess the capabilities
 chievements,      for faster-than-light travel—or
   our scientific   possibly they have Pandora Gates
 eakthroughs,      of their own.
  osciences, as      Given the wide dissimilarities
  ory, and cul-    in psychology between transhu-
 tight-lipped      man species and the Factors it
 ilization and     would be presumptuous to spec-
 though they       ulate concerning their true feel-
ded alien arti-    ings and agenda towards trans-
 gn and pecu-      humanity. It is hoped, however,
dely assumed       that by continuing negotiations
  y trinkets of    with them, transhumanity may
at the Factors     learn more about the nature of
 are anything      the galaxy—and possibly even
anshumanity,       our own history.                 ■
