synthmorphs that the habitat owns and that the resi-
dents share among themselves. Although considered
quite eccentric to many and horrifying to bioconser-
vatives, habitats inhabited solely by synthmorphs or
infomorphs are among the least expensive to build
and maintain and are a low-cost way for groups of
infomorph refugees from Earth to gain independence.
Because individuals who choose this way of life have
often spent a decade or more as infomorphs, this
option often seems both familiar and in many ways
more comfortable than inhabiting a living morph. As
Earth becomes more distant in transhumanity's collec-
tive memory, its traditions and social norms hold less
sway and people feel more free to create and use new
bodies and new ways of life to go along with them.



CULTURE AND SOCIETY
The Fall and its aftermath continues to be a major
influence on transhuman culture and society. Prior
to the start of the evacuation, more than ninety-nine
percent of the people who survived the Fall had never
been off Earth. For them, space was a distant realm
where other, more daring and adventurous people
lived, a place Earth dwellers only saw on videos. Earth
was their home. Then, in the course of a few short
years, hundreds of millions of people were forced to
leave Earth. The fortunate few first evacuees left with
no more than a dozen kilograms of possessions, while
the vast majority were infomorph refugees who left
Earth with nothing, not even their bodies.
   Today, transhumanity is divided into three groups.
The first group contains the true veterans of space
life, the less-than-one-percent of humanity that was
already living in space before the Fall. The second
group is the ten percent of the population that was
either born after the Fall or is too young to remember
living on Earth. The remaining eighty-nine percent of
the current population of the solar system lived gener-
ally happy and prosperous lives on Earth before the
Fall forced them to flee for their lives. These refugees
from Earth form a powerful social force, but as time
goes on memories of Earth grow dim, and people
adapt to their new homes and lives.

THE LONGING FOR EARTH
Most of transhumanity, especially those who were
forced to flee from the dying Earth, still mourn their
former home. Their longing for and nostalgia of
Earth has profoundly affected transhuman culture.
Artifacts from Earth, including ones as trivial as
coins or bits of dried vegetation, are considered to
be treasured mementos that have great economic and
emotional value.
  The interdiction of Earth makes acquiring such
artifacts quite difficult and dangerous. As a result, the
trade in Earth artifacts is a lucrative portion of the
black market, enough so that fearless scavengers are
willing to risk being shot down by a patrolling killsat
just to get to Earth, where they also face death from
  NOSTALGIA JEWELRY
  As both a reminder and a visible marker of their
  lost homeland, a significant number of refugees
  from Earth wear jewelry containing a coin or,
  more rarely, an old stamp from transhumanity's
  former home. Popularly known as nostalgia jew-
  elry, most of these items are made into pendants
  or lapel pins, but a few are rings. Before the Fall,
  coins and stamps were largely curiosities primar-
  ily of interest to collectors, having fallen out of
  use forty years BF. Already scarce, few were saved
  during the Fall as carrying such useless mass off
  Earth during the evacuation was discouraged or
  forbidden. A few extensive collections already
  existed off-world, however. Even so, less than a
  million authentic samples survived, meaning the
  vast majority of people wearing such items make
  do with exact copies made in cornucopia ma-
  chines. Actual coins or stamps are very expensive,
  meaning that some daring scavengers are willing
  to risk the interdiction of Earth for the express
  purpose of salvaging relics.                     ■




numerous lingering dangers. The mesh is peppered
with stories of daring explorers who traveled to Earth
to retrieve all manner of priceless relics, as well as
an equal number of stories about explorers who died
or simply vanished on such expeditions. More than
one team of gatecrashers has funded their expedi-
tion through a preliminary relic-hunting expedition
to Earth, which serves to test their mettle while they
work to raise funds.
   Nostalgia for Earth also affects the way transhu-
manity has redesigned itself. In the decade prior to
the Fall, humanity had begun to freely alter itself,
with both radical body modification and the first
commercial resleeving resulting in a growing number
of obviously non-human morphs. The vast majority
of current morphs, however, are relatively human
in appearance (if not in internal structure). Even for
people too young to remember the Fall, asserting
individual humanity is an important part of post-
Fall culture. Some people keep a resemblance to the
traditional human form as a remembrance of Earth,
while others do it to celebrate humanity's victory over
the monstrous and inhuman TITANs that attempted
to destroy them. With the exception of a few eccentric
groups like the ultimates, the majority of humanity
values looking human and preserving human tradi-
tions and institutions. Also, even the ultimates' cur-
rent version of their remade morph is considerably
more human looking than the versions their predeces-
sors designed before the Fall. As a result, while synth-
morphs are relatively common, most are made to look
humanoid. There are a few radically inhuman morphs
