                                                                    like the novacrab, the arachnoid, and the flexbot, but
                                                                    they are almost exclusively used for highly specialized
                                                                    purposes. Until recently, anyone who used one as their
                                                                    primary morph was considered deeply eccentric (or
                                                                    worse), but attitudes have gradually begun to soften,
                                                                    and these morphs are gradually becoming more ac-
                                                                    ceptable for regular use.
                                                                       This mixture of reverence and nostalgia for Earth
                                                                    sometimes has a darker side. Individuals who choose
                                                                    to have morphs that look visibly non-human expe-
                                                                    rience a mild degree of prejudice in many habitats,
                                                                    and militant bioconservatives denounce those who
                                                                    look sufficiently non-human as being covert allies
                                                                    of the TITANs. Uplifted animals also face significant
                                                                    discrimination from many humans. These prejudices
                                                                    are relatively common in the inner system and can
                                                                    be quite extreme among bioconservatives. As a result,
                                                                    uplifts and individuals who prefer inhuman-looking
                                                                    morphs often live in separatist communities in the
                                                                    outer system. In much of the inner system, uplifts and
                                                                    individuals using a visibly non-human morph as their
                                                                    primary or only morph are viewed with suspicion and
                                                                    occasionally treated as second-class citizens. While
                                                                    most habitats have laws mandating morphological
                                                                    freedom and many also have laws making prejudice
                                                                    based on morphological choice illegal, these attitudes
                                                                    remain quite resilient.

                                                                    FEAR AND PARANOIA
                                                                    The Fall left behind a persistent legacy of fear. This has
                                                                    faded over the past decade, but a great many humans
                                                                    still unconsciously expect the other shoe to drop and
                                                                    the TITANs to return at any moment. Others worry
                                                                    that their agents are already among them, preparing for
                                                                    the complete destruction of humanity. The arrival of
                                                                    the Factors caused widespread panic, and even today a
                                                                    substantial minority of people assumes they are cat's-
                                                                    paws for the TITANs—or possibly their creations.
                                                                       There are a few (often insane or deeply eccentric)
                                                                    people who worship the TITANs or otherwise support
                                                                    their agenda (including self-described “singularity
                                                                    seekers” who hope to find and be uploaded by the
                                                                    TITANs to join their ascension to super-intelligence),
                                                                    but all of them must keep their beliefs carefully hidden.



AN EXSURGENT THREAT?
           [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]     takeoff toward the singularity—some-      creatures … or phenomena that seem
           [Public Key Decryption Complete]          thing that changed them. They point       to defy certain physical laws, as if
           Ok, you asked, so I'll tell you. There    to the wide range of multi-vector virii   something was at times ignoring what
           are some elements within Firewall that    that ran loose during the Fall, and how   we know of physics and just doing
           don't buy into the TITANs-ran-amok-       even many of the TITANs seem to have      whatever it felt like … Some of these
           and-considered-us-a-threat idea, or       succumbed to these infections. They       voices within Firewall even think that
           even that the TITANs are solely respon-   also reference a disturbing number of     the TITANs may not have been respon-
           sible for the Fall. These people think    accounts of events during the Fall that   sible for the Pandora Gates … They
           that the TITANs found or encountered      are inexplicable … things like people     have a name for this mystery infection.
           something when they started their         being transformed into strange, alien     They call it the Exsurgent virus.
