 Even now, expressing any support for the TITANs or
 advocating the creation of self-improving seed AIs
 is illegal in most habitats. Anyone who does so runs
 the risk of becoming the target of mob violence that
 the authorities are unlikely to investigate too closely.
 Merely being suspected of being a supporter of the
 TITANs, or worse, someone who has been secretly
 infected by them and is now their agent, is enough
 to get someone shunned or even killed. While such
 incidents are now far rarer than they were in the first
 few years after the Fall, people who act too eccentric
 and who lack someone with a sufficiently high rep to
 defend them or explain their actions are occasionally
 killed, typically by being thrown out an airlock. Those
 responsible for these “spacings” are dealt with quite
 harshly in most habitats, since in almost all cases later
 investigation reveals that the victim had no connec-
 tion to the TITANs.
    There are also periodic rumors in many habitats, es-
 pecially small and isolated habitats, that one or more
 other habitats have been taken over by the TITANs,
 leading to a variety of inter-habitat problems. Such
 rumors are usually resolved fairly quickly, but the
 most persistent can seriously harm relations between
 habitats. Claims that other habitats are infested with
 or even controlled by agents of the TITANs are fre-
 quenly employed by extreme bioconservatives hoping
 to demonize radical habitats populated entirely by in-
 fomorphs or synthmorphs. As more people manage to
 put the fear and horror of the Fall behind them, such
 claims are less likely to be believed. Unfortunately,
 on very rare occasions, people are still infected by
 TITAN-created relics and actually become their un-
 willing agents. Since such incidents are rare, however,
 they have become easy to dismiss.

 REAL AND SOCIAL DISTANCE
 The vast distances between most habitats give all com-
 munications—with the exception of those using the
 rare and expensive QE communicators (p. 314)—a
 significant time lag between asking a question and



SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: SINGULARITY SEEKERS
                 Singularity seekers are those with an       and sp
                 unhealthy fascination in so-called sin-     with th
                SINGULARITY SEEKERS
                 gularity events, such as the hard takeoff
                 of the TITANs to super-intelligence.
                                                             and se
                                                             Some
                 Some are part of a radical sect of “ex-     crashe
                 humans” who believe that transhumans        artifac
                 are destined to become godlike super-       Others
                 beings and are determined to get there      conven
                 first. Others act on a defensive impulse,    exotic
                 believing that the only way humanity        linked
                 can survive another threat from beings      ing ext
                 like the TITANs is by becoming as hyper-    into sy
                 intelligent as their enemies are. Still        A fe
                 other singularity seekers are researchers   facts le
    receiving an answer. In most cases, the time lag ranges
    from ten seconds to several hours, and it makes real-
    time communications between distant habitats difficult
    or impossible. Communication problems only serve to
    further isolate habitats from one another, and as a result
    people socialize primarily with members of their own
    habitat (or habitat cluster, if their habitat is part of one
    of the various groupings of between two and twenty
    habitats that abound throughout the solar system).
       Within a habitat or habitat group, communication
    between residents is effectively instantaneous, thanks
    to the omnipresent wireless grid known as the mesh
    (p. 234). Anyone wearing a mid-range ecto (p. 325)
    or using basic mesh inserts (p. 300) can communicate
    with others in ways that go far beyond mere voice
    contact. Both devices allow AR communications that
    are in most ways barely distinguishable from in-per-
    son communication, so people can effectively spend
    in-person time with anyone in their habitat at any
    moment when both of them are free and interested in
    communicating. Unless someone deliberately wishes
    to turn off communication because they are sleeping
    or otherwise busy, people can always get in touch
    with one another. Many close friends and romantic
    partners regularly communicate anytime they have
    a spare moment, sharing comments and jokes. This
    communication is far more awkward and distant if
    there is a time lag of several minutes between every
    comment, so inter-habitat communication is never as
    informal or close.
       Although travel via egocasting (tramsitting an ego
    to another habitat, where it is resleeved) is as easy,
    if not as cheap, as communication, a trip to another
    habitat is considered to be a significant journey with
    a range of costs. Individuals traveling to a different
    habitat will no longer be able to engage in real-time
    communication or shared real-time entertainments
    with people back on the habitat they left, so the
    traveler will have to find a new social environment.
    In addition to the trouble and expense of acquiring
    a new morph in the new habitat, the social distance




 l seekers who are frustrated   to incorporate techniques and technolo-
mitations of their own minds    gies created by these inhuman beings
  become something greater.     into their minds. This last group is the
  ese people become gate-       most notorious, in large part because
 arching for advanced alien     of the spectacular nature of some of
   help them in their quest.    their failures. On occasion, these artifact
periment with employing         hunters have awakened devices that
 al technologies in new and     have lain dormant for a decade and
 , such as creating mentally-   caused local outbreaks of TITAN tech-
 orks of forks or incorporat-   nologies. These incidents have caused
 st and powerful computers      many people to regard singularity
 orphs and pods.                seekers as everything from potentially
  the most daring seek arti-    dangerous eccentrics to unknowing
  hind by the TITANs, hoping    pawns of the TITANs.
