between individuals and the social network they leave
behind is part of the cost of travel.
  Before the Fall, refugees from Earth were ac-
customed to being able to easily communicate with
anyone else on Earth. Wealthier individuals could
easily journey just about anywhere on the planet in a
few hours while still being able to communicate with
everyone back in their home city with no noticeable
change. The exodus of transhumanity from Earth,
though, means that an individual's social world is
only as large as their habitat. Even a relatively brief
communication lag, such as the two to thirty seconds
that is the average time lag between any two of the
Jovian or Saturnian moons, greatly hinders the flow of
back-and-forth communication. When time-lags are
involved, most communication consists of messages
rather than any attempt at continuous conversations.
In situations where a more in-depth discussion is nec-
essary and time is limited, someone can send a fork
of themselves—a digital copy (p. 273)—to hold the
discussion remotely on their behalf, and then return
for re-integration. Since there is already a large time
lag between sending a message and obtaining any pos-
sible response, most people do not hurry to answer
messages from distant habitats except in the most
urgent circumstances, further isolating people residing
in distant portions of the solar system.

THE RISE OF CULTURAL REGIONS
The only exception to the social distance between dif-
ferent habitats occurs when colonies are located on
or in relatively close orbit around the same planet or
moon. The inhabitants of Mars can all communicate
with one another instantaneously, as can everyone
on Luna or in Lunar orbit. However, the rivalry be-
tween the various Martian city-states—and between
the primary hypercorp domes and the rural Martian
poor—imposes its own social distance. Individuals
from different city-states do socialize, but among the
elite social cliques, spending too much time commu-
nicating with members of another city-state is viewed
as somewhat odd and potentially even disloyal. As
a result, Martians tend to be relatively isolated even
from their close neighbors. Nevertheless, the short
distances between the Martian city-states and the
orbiting habitats mean that there remains a general
Martian culture that is different from the cultures of
the rest of the solar system.
   Distance barriers have produced similar levels of
cultural differentiation in other portions of the solar
system. The colonies in the vicinity of both Jupiter
and Saturn each form a separate cultural unit, as do
the colonies in Earth orbit and on and around Luna.
The same is true for the Jovian Trojan and Greek as-
teroids. In each of these regions, people communicate
and travel more between habitats and settlements
than they do with outside regions.
   Social scientists refer to the different sections of the
solar system as separate cultural regions. The different
regions of the belt also each form a similar cultural
region, but because asteroids in different orbits even-
tually drift quite far apart, the cohesion and unity of
these cultural units is somewhat weaker. Habitats on
the edge of the solar system (around Uranus, Neptune,
and Pluto) form very small cultural regions, but the
few habitats in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud have
no cultural region since the distance between them is
so extreme.
   Though communications between habitats within
the same cultural region is somewhat awkward due
to intra-regional cultural differences and small time-
lags, it is usually fast and easy enough for people on
different habitats to keep in regular contact with one
another. In addition, most habitats within the same
cultural region are sufficiently close that egocasting
between them is affordable by most people. In con-
trast, egocasting between cultural regions is relatively
expensive. Many social scientists predict that within
one or two decades, different cultural regions will be
at least as different from one another as distant na-
tions of Earth were from one another during the first
half of the 20th century—perhaps even more so due
to the physical alterations that cultures introduce as
they continue to evolve.

CULTURAL EXPERIMENTATION
While nostalgia for Earth remains a powerful social
motivation, the break from Earth led many inhabit-
ants of the solar system to experiment with new
forms of culture and society. Since the Fall destroyed
physical links with the past and the defeat of the last
old-Earth governments ended ideological ties with the
old political and social forces, many transhumans saw
themselves as living in a new, free era where the past
was dead. Even people who always wear nostalgia
jewelry and spend several hours a day in simulspaces
set on old Earth are very interested in the possibility
of social and political experimentation. Those without
criticisms of Earth's nation-states and their many fail-
ings still rue the day when Earth fell.
   Many of the most extreme social experimenters
moved to the numerous small outer system habitats
that were created in the decade after the Fall, but
people interested in social and cultural experimenta-
tion can be found throughout the solar system. In ad-
dition to playing with various interior structure and
design ideas, the inhabitants of many stations experi-
ment with all manner of unique social and political
rules. A few habitats do so quite deliberately, either
because the members are interested in social innova-
tion or because researchers associated with a hyper-
corp or university have offered them goods or services
in return for testing one of their latest theories. Such
experiments have included establishing stations where
all of the residents are sleeved in hermaphroditic
morphs in order to measure the impact on customs
and language when gender is abolished or spurring
the residents of a particular station to freely switch
their morphs based on the responsibilities and duties
they have on a given day. Such staged experiments are,
