however, relatively rare—the vast majority of unique
customs and social structures that have come about
since the Fall naturally evolved from groups of like-
minded individuals living together in the same habitat
and working, consciously or not, to make life better
fit with their aesthetics or ideology.

GENDER, SEXUALITY, AND RELATIONSHIPS
To many transhumans, gender has become an outdat-
ed social construct with no basis in biology. After all,
it's hard to give credence to gender roles when an ego
can easily modify their sex, switch skins, or experience
the lives of others via XP. Though most transhumans
still adhere to the gender associated with their original
biological sex, many others switch gender identities
as soon as they reach adulthood or avidly pursue
repeated transgender switching. Still others examine
and adopt untraditional sex-gender identities such as
neuters (believing a lack of sex allows greater focus in
their pursuits) or dual gender (the best of both worlds).
In many bioconservative habitats and cultures, how-
ever, more traditional gender roles persevere.
   Sexuality has also expanded into new frontiers and
taboos. With basic biomods providing contraception
and protections from STDs, casual sex is the norm.
Many people pursue careers as well-paid companions
and escorts. In fact, sexual experimentation is stan-
dard thanks to several new technologies. Virtual real-
ity allows sexual encounters without physically touch-
ing a partner, not to mention bringing all manner of
fantasies to life. For those that prefer the touch of real
skin, AI-driven pleasure pods can fulfill any and all
needs and are a legal form of prostitution in many
habitats. Sex-switching also lends itself to new experi-
ences, whether via bio-mods or a new sleeve. Even
AGIs, having been socialized as humans, exhibit sexu-
ality and desire.
   The extension of lifespans and the decline of reli-
gion have drastically impacted social institutions like
marriage. Given the possible changes to both cogni-
tion and biology over a transhuman's lifetime, lifelong
relationships are no longer considered realistic. The
idea of long-term relationships as a social contract
has grown exponentially. While this has resulted in
a number of marriages that are political or like a
business transaction, most people continue to view
marriage as a bond of emotional attachment and
trusts—in particular a bond that transcends bodies,
as either partner may change morphs at any time.

THE DIVERSITY OF HABITATS
The ability of a few thousand like-minded people of
moderate means to acquire a small habitat where
they can create their own society resembles the
ability of inhabitants of the United States in the
19th century to set out for the West and found their
own ideologically based communities. The primary
difference is that creating such communities is faster
and easier in the modern era. The mesh is filled with
all manner of virtual communities where members
hope to eventually gather the means to create their
own habitats. In most cases, these are merely idle
dreams; most participants are not willing to sacrifice
the time and rep or money needed. Occasionally the
members try, only to find out that some of the people
promoting this effort are con artists. Occasionally
virtual subcultures manage to raise the necessary
dedication and trust to build their own habitat and
begin the process of creating their own physical so-
ciety. A decade of this sort of cultural experimenta-
tion by many hundreds of habitats has produced a
number of unique and strange societies.
   As an example, there are habitats where the in-
habitants wear garments and AR images that cover
their bodies—and, in the most extreme cases, their
faces—and residents only reveal their morph's true
appearance to their closest friends and immediate
family. There are also stations where all members use
cosmetic modification to adopt the same ideal look,
as well as ones where all residents use morphs that
are clones of one another. Some of the most eccentric
habitats are populated by extreme bioconservatives
overcome with nostalgia for the past, leading them
to model both their society and all visible technology
after some earlier period in history, typically some
time between zero and 50 years BF.
   There are even a few habitats that totally disregard
commonly held feelings about forks and merging.
Such community members regularly split off mul-
tiple forks when they awaken and plan their day
and then merge the various forks when they go to
sleep that night. Some forks remain infomorphs for
the day, while others use one of the various morphs
the individual owns or rents, which means that each
resident typically lives between two and six separate
lives every day. A few societies, like the home of the
infamous Pax Familiae, go even further—all residents
are forks of the same individual. In some of these
solipsistic habitats, the forks are all expected to use
cloned morphs, while in others each fork is consid-
ered a separate person who should go and forge their
own unique life. Some of the less extreme manifesta-
tions of this type of habitat include places inhabited
by families that are partially or entirely composed of
forks of one of the members (the various forks tend to
be treated as siblings).



TECHNOLOGY
Technology pervades all aspects of existence in Eclipse
Phase. Most individuals understand that unless hu-
manity suffers another event like the Fall or they per-
sonally suffer some very serious and unlikely accident,
they are unlikely to permanently die. More people are
now planning for a very long future. For most people
these schemes are fairly minimal, but they often in-
clude an awareness that few, if any, relationships are
likely to last an entire lifetime. However, functional
immortality is only one of the many wonders of the
modern world.
