 responses. Being able to quote from any vid, old movie,
 book, or historical speech is now trivially easy and
 can be done with a few seconds of thought. While
 children and young teens often play by interjecting
 large amounts of semi-appropriate famous quotes in
 their speech, most adults only do so for emphasis and
 in moderation. People who quote from other sources
 too often are considered dull and unimaginative. Rec-
 ognizing such quotes is quite easy, since someone can
 simply set their muse to alert them to the nature and
 identity of all lengthy quotes they hear.
   All experienced mesh users also learn (typically as
 children and teens) how to avoid taking too much
 time out from conversations to check facts or access
 information via the mesh. Teens regularly mock their
 fellows who pause too often or too long in conver-
 sations to look up further information on a topic
 someone mentioned, or who spend too long trying
 to assemble facts to support an argument. Terms like
“meshed out” or “drooler” are used by teens to mock
 each other into learning how to be both discreet and
 faster in their information searches, at least when also
 interacting with others. While adults rarely engage
 in the same sort of direct and obvious mockery,
 people who get too lost in casual or conversational
 meshbrowsing are widely viewed as socially inept. As
 a result, implants that allow multi-tasking or tempo-
 rarily speed up thought are in great demand, since
 they allow individuals to do extensive research and
 rehearse each statement they are going to make with-
 out a moment's pause. People who can afford such
 software almost always seem more suave, charismatic,
 and intelligent than those who do not.
   All this means that those who lack all mesh and AR
 access—individuals known as zeroes—present a stark
 contrast to the rest of transhumanity. To most people,
 zeroes seem slow, forgetful, and almost unbelievably
 dense, while to zeroes, even people who only possess
 ectos or basic implants seems brilliant, witty, and able
 to comprehend things with almost inhuman speed.
GOING BEYOND THE KNOWN
One of the oddest experiences for gatecrashers and
others who explore unusual environments such as the
ruins of Earth is the unavailability of data. They look
at an alien plant or a TITAN-mutated person, and
their search returns various error messages meaning
that there is either no data at all on the subject or
that the only data is purely speculative and should
be regarded as dangerously unreliable. This can be
especially troubling when the subject in question is
a small creature that has just landed on the person's
shoulder and the individual wants to know if it's
harmless or deadly. Most people who are less than
sixty years old have never been in an environment
where they could not gain basic information about
everything around them at a glance. Learning to over-
come the shock of not knowing anything at all about
something is one of the first and most crucial skills all
gatecrashers must learn.

MUSES
Most individuals have a dedicated AI that serves as
their media agent. Commonly known as a muse, this
AI has been a lifelong companion for most people
less than seventy years old. Muses learn their owners'
tastes, habits, and preferences, and do their best to
make life and technology use as easy as possible.
Muses can be alarm clocks, data retrieval gophers,
appointment schedulers, accountants, and many other
functions often limited only by their owners' imagina-
tions. Some of their tasks do not even need to be as-
signed them—muses are skilled at figuring out people's
needs and acting on them. For example, the muse's
scheduling function may tell it when its user needs to
be up in the morning, and it will act as an alarm clock
without any additional instructions from the user. If a
muse is uncertain about its owner's preferences, it asks,
but after working with a user for a few decades muses
rarely need to do this. Most people keep multiple
back-ups of their muse, because the loss of a muse
