can be almost as traumatic as the death of a loved one.
Using a generic muse who must be informed about
all aspects of a user's individual preferences and fed a
constant stream of instructions helps people appreci-
ate the value of their own personal muse agent. Muses
generally learn the basics of a new user's preferences
in a month or two, but during that learning period the
user tends to be irritable and forgetful, since the tasks
they generally trust their muse to do automatically are
not being taken care of.

ATTITUDES TOWARD AGIS
The vast majority of transhumanity blames the Fall on
rogue seed AIs (self-improving artificial intelligences).
As a result, any AIs that are not crippled or some-
how limited from improving themselves—including
the AGIs (artificial general intelligences) that were
common and growing in number before the Fall—are
completely illegal in many habitats, or at least heavily
regulated. The Fall ended only slightly more than a
decade ago, and many transhumans consider AGIs
and the TITANs that murdered their homeworld to
be one and the same.
   In addition to strict anti-AGI laws, there have been
occasional riots and mass panics surrounding facili-
ties still performing AGI research, which has pushed
most such research into isolated settlements. Never-
theless, there are still people passionately devoted to
AGIs; some see them as the next step in posthuman
evolution, others value all sentience, and still others
actually worship them. However, AGI supporters have
learned to keep their opinions private in mixed com-
pany, lest they be branded an agent of the TITANs.
   In some spots, mostly in the more anarchistic outer
system, attitudes towards AGIs are more relaxed and
AGIs may even be openly welcomed. These places
recognize that AGIs are not the same threat posed by
seed AIs and it is unfair to punish one for the actions
of the other. Naturally, these places are havens for the
AGIs active in transhuman society, who otherwise
must disguise their true natures.
   In the tightly-controlled inner system, the hyper-
corps and the Planetary Consortium foster anti-AGI
sentiments both as safety measures and as protection
against possible competitors. This latter point is one
of the things that makes them attractive to some
people in the outer system; they understand the great
advantages their factions gain … assuming, that is,
that those AGIs share your goals and ideals.

ATTITUDES TOWARDS MENTAL ALTERATIONS
In the post-Fall solar system, technology can alter peo-
ple's minds; controversy about many of these altera-
tions remains. Few people have trouble with the idea
of creating short-term forks using the multi-tasking
augmentation or some similar process that insures
the forks will be re-integrated within a few hours.
However, the idea of long-term forks, and especially
of allowing forks to gain access to their own separate
morphs, troubles many people. Since there are not
enough morphs to go around in the first place, pro-
viding morphs to a fork strikes many people as selfish
and wasteful. As a result, on the rare occasion that
people sleeve one of their forks, they typically provide
it with a synthmorph to avoid the social stigma associ-
ated with using more than one body at a time.
   Forks that exist for more than a few hours inspire
discomfort in many people because the forks begin to
diverge slightly in personality. Most people find the
idea of two different and distinct versions of them-
selves to be somewhat disturbing. While there are
habitats (mostly in the outer system) where forking
is a regular part of daily life and forks often exist in-
dependently for a day or two, most visitors find such
habitats distasteful and bizarre.
   However, while voluntary forking is still regarded
as somewhat odd, involuntary uses of this and the
associated mental technologies are so horrifying that
they form the basis of much lurid crime fiction. Some-
one being unknowingly mind-napped and having an
involuntary—and often secret—fork created is some-
thing that people regard with abject terror, despite it
being quite rare. Similarly, while mental surgery to
correct psychiatric problems or as punishment for
various serious crimes is frightening and disturbing
in its own right, illegal brain hacking draws horror
and disgust from almost everyone in the solar system.
Penalties for involuntary forking and mind hacking
are exceptionally high. In many habitats, they are
among the few crimes punishable by death (including
the destruction of all backups and forks).

TRAVEL
Travel between habitats and other transhuman colo-
nies is both exceedingly easy and fairly costly. Long-
range egocasting is expensive, as is acquiring a morph
at the destination. Travelers have developed various
ways around this obstacle; for example, if someone
only needs to visit another habitat for a few days and
is visiting primarily to engage in real-time communi-
cation, they often choose to remain an infomorph for
the duration of their visit and to communicate via AR,
thus saving all resleeving expenses. For visitors who
require a morph but will not be staying long, most
habitats offer the option of renting a generic splicer
or synthmorph or, for a slightly higher cost, a generic
exalt morph. Habitats or worlds with unusual re-
quirements, like Mars, Europa, or the various zero-g
habitats offer ruster, aquanaut, or bouncer morphs
instead of splicers. These morphs can be used for up to
a week without much difficulty, and using one for up
to a month is usually possible with sufficient negotia-
tion and payment. Meanwhile, the traveler's previous
morph is kept in medical stasis back in their home
habitat, waiting for their ego to return.
   Another technique is morph trading by people from
different habitats who know each other and who are
traveling at the same time. A few people do this with
strangers they meet on the mesh, but vids and other
entertainments are filled with tales of people having
