 their morphs or their identity stolen. A few of these
 horror stories are based on actual accounts. Very few
 people are willing to let anyone they do not know and
 trust use their body, and many people simply will not
 lend out their morph to anyone at all.
    Some people, however, are willing, for a fee, to act
 as a living “taxi” for a visiting infomorph, carrying
 it around with them. In these cases the “ghostriding”
 infomorph is not permitted to control their host's
 morph directly and is simply a passenger along for
 the ride, issuing directions and communicating with
 their transporters electronically.
    Travelers who wish to either immigrate to a new
 habitat or visit one for several months or longer
 must acquire their own morph. Usually, they reduce
 the cost of acquiring a new morph by selling their
 previous morph to a body bank. Alternately, some
 individuals sleeved in expensive custom-designed
 morphs who are traveling relatively short distances
 will rent a generic shell for several weeks and ar-
 range to have their old morph shipped to them on
 a fairly rapid freighter. Doing this is rarely more
 than a moderate expense, which makes it less expen-
 sive than the costs of buying or replacing high-end
 custom modified morphs.

 PRIVACY
 Privacy is a prized possession for most inhabitants of
 the solar system, but it is so rare that for many people
 it might as well be a foreign concept. In the 20th and
 early 21st century, privacy consisted of two concepts
 that are now completely separate—the ability to remain
 unnoticed or anonymous and the ability to avoid un-
 wanted intrusion. The first is largely absent from the
 lives of most people in the present day. Anyone who
 uploads anything to a non-private portion of the mesh
 understands that anyone who wishes to do so can gain
 access to it. Likewise, anyone who spends time in a
 public place understands that anyone can learn where
 they went, what they did, and what they said due to the
 ubiquity of meshed, sensor-enabled devices. As a result,
 everyone's public life, both on the mesh and in person,
 can be transformed into an easily searchable database.
 Almost everyone keeps such a record of their own lives,
 commonly known as a lifelog. Most people allow their
 lifelogs to be public, understanding that anonymity is
 now an archaic concept.


SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: INCAPACITATING INPUTS
                During the Fall, the attacking TITANs      people
                used a variety of AR and online intru-     simply
             INCAPACITATING INPUTS
                sions that interfered with or even inca-
                pacitated their targets. The most basic
                                                           vanced
                                                           elemen
                of these were deceptive AR illusions       emotio
                made to convince people that their         their ta
                physical environment was very different    input,
                from what it actually was. This fooled     and infl
       While the interiors of private dwellings remain free
    from continuous surveillance, almost all habitats have
    emergency sensors in every building providing a full
    record of events to emergency service workers and AIs
    in case of problems such as dangerous chemical leak,
    a sufficiently large fire, an explosion, loss of air pres-
    sure, or some other equally dramatic and potentially
    dangerous event. Both the events of the Fall and the
    fact that almost all of humanity now lives in habitats
    surrounded by hostile environments mean that such
    sensors are standard fare. A few habitats do not allow
    emergency sensors in private dwellings, but most
    people regard these habitats as potential death traps.
    These emergency sensors do not record anything other
    than the absence of potential dangers if they are not
    triggered by specific events. This limitation allows
    individuals privacy within their own residences—as
    long as they are certain no one has planted a secret
    recording device in their home. Ultimately, remaining
    unobserved is a matter of both care and trust, and ev-
    eryone understands that most of the time everything
    they do will be part of the vast public record.
       In vivid contrast, the freedom to avoid unwanted
    intrusion is carefully prized by the inhabitants of the
    post-Fall era. Unwanted personal or data intrusion
    into someone's private dwelling or personal electronic
    files is a crime in most habitats and a serious crime in
    many. Also, while both the mesh and augmented real-
    ity are filled with all manner of AI-mediated adware,
    most of it has evolved to be relatively benign and to
    provide non-intrusive suggestions about goods, infor-
    mation, and services that are likely to be of legitimate
    interest to the targeted person. An individual's muse
    filters out unwanted advertising. While it is certainly
    possible to create advertising that can hack through
    any muse's filters, doing so is usually illegal.
       Unwanted AR intrusions are similarly limited.
    During the early days of AR technology, there were
    serious problems with users being overwhelmed with
    unrequested and distracting input—as many said, the
    mist got very thick indeed, so both law and custom
    changed to prevent such invasions. Today, most people
    expect to only experience data that they are looking for
    or that they might be interested in, and that any data
    they are not interested in will quickly vanish. Being
    surrounded by a large amount of unwanted AR data
    is not just annoying and distracting, it is also deeply




   attacking their fellows or       Despite rumors and fears of so-
gated mass panic. More ad-       called “basilisk hacks”—visual or
 ions targeted the empathic      other sensory-input attacks that alleg-
  AR, triggering fear or other   edly subverted transhuman minds by
esponses. Still others blasted   exploiting the way brains processed
 s with overbearing sensory      such data—no credible reports have
  ong that it bypassed filters    been verified.
d neurological damage.
