frightening, because it means that there is a serious
problem with either the habitat's mesh or the person's
electronics—it could even mean that the entire habitat
is under direct attack by infowar weapons.

LOW-TECH EXISTENCE
 More than ninety-five percent of humanity inhabits
 artificially created morphs. Most of them also possess
 basic implants, and the vast majority of the rest wear
 ectos with retina displays and other simple peripher-
 als that allow the user to fully perceive and interact
 with the vast network of information around them.
 However, slightly less than four percent of the remain-
 ing population inhabit flats or splicer morphs without
 basic implants and also lack access to ectos and other
 basic technologies.
    Since an ecto is both a relatively trivial expense and
 a piece of equipment vital to existence in the solar
 system, the only individuals who lack such technolo-
 gies stand on the very lowest rungs of the social ladder.
A few are the poorest members of the most marginal
 habitats, but most are slaves or the next best thing to
 them. The lowest social classes in the Jovian Republic
 lack personal infotech access and so do the lowest
 class of people indentured to the hypercorps and the
 Planetary Consortium, particularly on Luna and Mars.
These individuals are either indentured criminals or
 people sufficiently lacking in useful skills that they are
 assigned mindless physical tasks that cannot be more
 efficiently performed by AIs.
   The lack of mesh access makes these unfortunate
“zeroes” into mental and social cripples, unable to per-
 ceive the vast wealth of AR that most people take for
 granted. They are also unable to communicate with
 anyone beyond the range of their voice or to access
 almost all information, including traffic signals and
 shop displays. When necessary, the managers and
 overseers in charge of groups of zeroes allow them
 access to handheld meshbrowsers. These devices re-
 semble the handheld terminals common in the early
 21st century and have limited functionality, typically
 forbidding communication and restricting mesh re-
 search to carefully filtered topics.
    Because of their inability to access AR or the mesh,
 zeroes are almost completely isolated from everyone
 else, meaning they are also unable to organize ef-
 fectively or to otherwise cause trouble for the people
 who control them. In much of the outer system, the
 existence of zeroes is considered one of the greatest
 crimes against transhumanity perpetrated by the Plan-
 etary Consortium and the Jovian Republic.

LIFE, DEATH, AND MORPHS
While death is no longer a certainty for transhumanity,
it remains a possibility. During the decade preceding
the Fall, most of humanity was growing used to the
idea that immortality was in their grasp. Then, in just
a few short years, the TITANs wiped out more than
ninety percent of us. Faced with the horror of so much
needless death, efforts to insure the lives of surviving
 humans became a top priority. Now, the technology
 of immortality—uploading, cortical stacks, and other
 related wonders—is commonplace.
    Today, most of the residents of the solar system
 have adjusted to this fact (except for the most extreme
 bioconservatives); everyone expects both to live forever
 and to have their friends, loved ones, and enemies do
 the same. While death is rare, though, it is still possible.
 Severe accidents can destroy someone's cortical stack
 as well as their brain, and egos can also be wiped away
 in punishment for sufficiently heinous crimes—though
 the process of execution is considerably more difficult
 than it had been a few decades earlier.
    For most people (with the exception of those too
 poor to afford a new morph), non-permanent death is
 an annoyance equivalent to events that most people in
 the late 20th century regarded as moderate misfortunes,
 like a bad stomach flu or a broken arm. In almost all
 habitats, if anyone is responsible for someone's tempo-
 rary death, either accidentally or on purpose, they are
 also responsible for paying for the person's resleeving
 in an identical morph, especially if that person does not
 have some form of resleeving insurance. People who
 have temporarily died can expect to receive visits from
 everyone they are at all close to after their resleeving,
 as well as a host of e-cards and perhaps a few gifts
 from their acquaintances and colleagues, all expressing
 sympathy at their death and welcoming them back to
 the world of the physically embodied. Exchanging such
“life gifts” is an accepted part of belonging to many
 professions such as emergency service workers, where
 members regularly risk temporary death.
    Deliberately choosing to change morphs or to tem-
 porarily become an infomorph is treated differently.
 People typically spend at least a day or two between
 deciding to change morphs and actually doing so.
 During this time, it is considered polite for someone
 to inform everyone they know well or work with
 about their upcoming resleeving. Along with personal
 visits, as well as calls and e-cards detailing the time
 of the upcoming event, the person who is resleeving
 is expected to include an image of what their new
 morph will look like, so people they know will be
 able to easily recognize them. However, it is consid-
 ered gauche for someone who is upgrading to a better
 morph to include details about their new morph.
Within a few days of resleeving, a “resleeving party”
 is typically held to introduce everyone they know
 to their new morph. Depending upon how well-off,
 well-known, and social the individual is, these parties
 range from lavish affairs held in hotel ballrooms to
 small intimate gatherings in the person's home.
    Permanent death is treated very differently. Because
 it is both relatively rare and no longer expected, the
 old funerary rituals surrounding death have faded
 and new traditions have grown in their place. Since
 every death reminds many people of the billions who
 permanently died during the Fall, most of the few
 funerals that are held honor both the person who just
 died as well as the victims of the Fall.
