LOST LORE
The accumulated knowledge and media of Earth,
spanning the history of human intelligence, is a
vast and impressive amount. Even before the Fall,
many orbital settlements had acquired complete
records of all previous human lore and creativity,
including copies of every book, painting, song,
film, TV program, console game, newspaper, and
magazine article that had ever been translated
into digital format, as well as backups of Earth's
entire internet archives. Numerous destructive
programs unleashed during the Fall corrupted
much of this information, however, in some cases
permanently wiping it from existence.
  This means that what remains of Earth's
archived history and data is patchy and incom-
plete. Much survives, but some treasures have
been lost. In particular, media from the era of the
Fall itself is particularly hard to come by, given
the consistent attacks the TITANs were making on
information systems. Proprietary data that was
withheld from the public domain behind elec-
tronic gates on Earth is even more likely to have
been lost, except for a few hypercorps that man-
aged to transfer their Earth-bound data off-world
in time.
  Retrieving lost data is a lucrative task for scav-
engers and archeologists, though looting the
dangerous confines of Earth or derelict habitats
destroyed during the Fall is a risky proposition. ■




  ENTERTAINMENT AND MEDIA
  A substantial amount of media survives the Fall of
  Earth, and a significant number of modern transhu-
  mans make their living creating new songs, stories,
  reports, or other media. All of this is easily and swiftly
  accessible through any basic implant, ecto, or (on very
  rare occasions) archaic handheld terminal. However,
  most of this media is not to the taste of any particular
  individual, and vast amounts of it are mediocre. As
  a result, most humans keep two layers of evaluation
  between them and anything they might consider ex-
  posing themselves to.
    The first layer is based on popularity and critical re-
  views. Every piece of media has a rating, often weight-
  ed by the opinions of critics with high rep scores who
  comment on their virtues and faults. Specialized AIs
  also evaluate the responses of consumers, so individu-
  als can use reviewers they trust or they can seek out
  media that is either widely or specifically popular in
  their particular demographic and subcultural niche.
    The second filter layer is the individual's muse.
  Muses learn their owner's tastes and moods and au-
  tomatically search out and recommend various sorts
  of media. Individuals can do everything from asking
  their muse to select something they will enjoy, to
