  asking for a something that will challenge their opin-
  ions, to looking at all current events news that will
  be of interest to them. Muses use their understanding
  of their user's preferences, mixed with ratings and
  reviews, to make their decisions. Individuals can even
  set their muses to edit all media so that they better fit
  with the person's interests and preferences. In the most
  extreme cases, this process can twist and edit news
  so that it bears no relation to real events. This same
  process is used to make the characters and dialog in
  novels and vids more appealing. More commonly, the
  muses merely edit out aspects of a news story or ar-
  ticle in which the individual is not interested.
     Ratings, reviews, and muses allow individuals
  to avoid media overload, but they also reinforce
  subcultural barriers. A great many people only seek
  out media and news that reinforces their existing
  opinions and beliefs. Xenophobic individuals who
  distrust all non-humans, from uplifted octopi to the
  Factors, regularly view news stories and AR dramas
  about evil aliens and devious uplifted animals who
  commit heinous crimes. Similarly, individuals who are
  only interested in their own habitat have all external
  news altered by their muses so that it refers only to
  the effects outside events will have on their station.
     In a very real sense, individuals from radically
  different subcultures and demographics inhabit com-
  pletely different worlds. The one force that works
  against this separation is the fact that many people
  wish to follow the lives and opinions of those with
  the highest reputation scores. In many cases, a large
  portion of these individual's high rep scores comes
  from their interest in and willingness to interact with
  (or at least acknowledge) a wide variety of different
  sources of information. As a result, listening to opin-
  ions by a high-rep celebrity can expose people to in-
  formation that they might never encounter otherwise.
  Also, in many habitats, AIs responsible for media dis-
  tribution tag some news as being sufficiently impor-
  tant that it should be immune to filtering by muses.



METACELEBRITIES
               As the culture industry quickly discov-         person s
               ered, biotech and resleeving technology         often cha
               clashed with the media's ability to focus       Stardust,
               the spotlight on specific icons. When ev-        a real pe
               eryone can be bodysculpted, the beautiful       who has
               people need to be more than glamorous           people si
               faces. More to the point, the public's inter-   dom in A
               est in celebs faltered when famous people       celebrity
               repeatedly changed their looks and were         Likewise,
               no longer immediately recognizable.             Juan Ngu
                  One of the ways big entertainment            based en
               has responded is to promote metace-             who died
               lebrities—icons based on characters             Many me
               rather than real people. Each metace-           fictional c
               lebrity has their own (very expensive)          Sun Mi H
               unique customized morph, but the                than the
   This tagging is a regular and expected occurrence
   in some habitats, while in others it is reserved for
   only the most important and potentially life-saving
   information. Bypassing muses for any less important
   reason in these stations is considered a gross inva-
   sion of privacy or even a crime.

   POPULAR TYPES OF ENTERTAINMENT
   The most popular forms of electronic entertainments
   are vids, vidgames, VR worlds, XP, and AR games.

   VIDS AND VIDGAMES
   Vids are passive entertainments that can be enjoyed
   either as high-resolution audiovisual entertainment or
   as a fully immersive experience where the viewer can
   augment their experience with smell, touch, and taste
   while experiencing the point of view of one of the
   major characters. Viewing them purely via sight and
   sound is much like watching an old 20th-century film,
   except that it's interactive and in 3D. In contrast, full
   sensory viewing is much like actually being present in
   the story.
      Most modern vids have variable theme and prefer-
   ence settings enabling viewers to adjust the content of
   what they are watching, including the level of violence,
   the amount and type of sexuality they prefer, as well
   as the appearances of some or all of the major char-
   acters. In addition, many vids have several alternate
   endings for people who prefer happy, bittersweet, or
   grim endings. As a result, two people watching the
   same vid could have very different experiences if they
   use radically different settings.
      Vidgames are like vids, except they are much more
   flexible. In vidgames, the viewer not only experiences
   the story with the protagonist—they become the pro-
   tagonist, shaping the story through their own actions,
   similar to sophisticated early-21st-century console
   games. Some games allow the participation of up to a
   dozen individuals or link thousands of players via the
   mesh, while others are designed for a single player.




ed within that morph         brought her to fame, never traveling
 . The actress Angelique     anywhere without her iconic pair of
xample, once existed as      glowering smart leopards. Actors taking
  but is now a character     on a metacelebrity role often undergo
  played by over a dozen     psychosurgery to better play the part.
he original rose to star-        Metaceleb personas are strictly man-
nd promptly sold off her     aged and marketed as a media product
acter rights to Experia.     to appeal to specific consumer groups.
 d-winning heart-breaker     Though they play an active role within
s a constructed persona      hyperelite circles, many of the genuine
  on the action hero star    glitterati view them with humor at best,
 was lost during the Fall.   disdain at worst—though some have
ebrities are modeled on      learned the hard way not to underesti-
cters; notorious bad girl    mate or mess with the small armies of
s no different offscreen     media engineers behind each metace-
kicking villain role that    leb's carefully crafted image.
