The degree of freedom in vidgames varies. Some are
almost fully interactive realms similar to many VR
worlds with all but a few characters controlled by AIs,
while others are considerably simpler and more lim-
ited, with player interaction limited to a few crucial
decisions. The precise dividing line between vids and
vidgames is blurry, but both media have the common
trait of being designed for either solitary use or for
use by a few players or viewers who are all located
relatively near one another. Vids and vidgames are
the most popular forms of entertainment, with vids
and vidgames set on Earth before the Fall being espe-
cially prevalent.

XP
Experience playback (XP) is a specialized type of vid
that consists of the recorded sensory impressions of a
single individual. Almost all of the inhabitants of the
solar system lead relatively quiet and risk-averse lives
and are naturally eager to be able to vividly experience
adventures such as climbing Olympus Mons, spending
a day in one of the most luxurious and exotic private
habitats, going on a scavenging mission to Earth, or
gatecrashing. There is also a thriving fringe market in
less savory XPs, including records of people commit-
ting all manner of violent or dangerous crimes and
XPs of actual gun battles between well-armed crimi-
nals and law enforcement personnel, which often end
with the death of the morph providing the point of
view.
   Anyone with mesh inserts can create an XP of their
past experiences, and anyone with an ecto or mesh
inserts can access the sensory recordings. Selling a
particularly exciting XP, such as a record of the first
meeting with the Factors, can bring in a lot of money
or rep. Most XPs consist of both sensory recordings
and the surface thoughts of the individual who made
them. Many people who access XPs are only inter-
ested in the sensory recordings and feel that having
another person's recorded thoughts and emotions in
their head is intrusive and uncomfortable. However,
some hardcore XP aficionados feel that accessing the
full XP, including the recorded emotions, makes the
experience more immersive and real.
   A significant minority of XP fans becomes fasci-
nated with one or two daring people who regularly
sell XPs, known as X-casters, viewing all of their clips,
including both the experiences and the accompanying
thoughts. Some of these XP fans become more inter-
ested in the person who recorded the clip than in the
individual experiences, and they often come to believe
that they have a special, clear understanding of this
person, to the point where they strongly identify with
this person or even fall in love with them. In addition,
individuals who access XPs from a single person often
enough sometimes begin to mimic various habits or
figures of speech of this person. Particularly popular
X-casters are sometimes rather disturbed when they
see tens of thousands of people imitating one of their
more idiosyncratic expressions or habits.
    A few serious fans—known as Xers (pronounced
“ex-ers”)—alter their morphs to resemble their favor-
 ite X-caster. Some obsessive Xers actually attempt to
 contact and stalk certain X-casters, perhaps hoping
 to become part of an actual XP clip. In most habitats
 and subcultures, Xers are widely regarded as having
 particularly dull and meaningless lives. Hardcore
Xers are often viewed as being insecure and poten-
 tially unstable.

AR GAMES
Augmented reality (AR) games involve players
interacting both with events in the physical world
and with augmented reality imagery that recasts the
people and objects the players see. For example, in-
stead of seeing another player in a splicer morph and
ordinary clothing, a player of an AR game might see
a horrific rotting zombie, a bizarre alien life form, or
a well-armed soldier. These games tend to be locally
focused within a particular habitat or city as they
allow players to interact when they are within physi-
cal proximity, but some games link habitats within
the same cultural region.
   The nature and intensity of these games varies
widely. Some are long-term games involving people
imagining that they are deep cover spies or some other
exciting and unique role. Players may pretend to be
anything from time travelers attempting to prevent
some horrible disaster to covert agents attempting
to uncover plots by TITAN-infected people on their
habitat—who happen to be camouflaged as snack
designers, personal assistants, etc. During their daily
lives, players exchange messages with each other as
well as with the people running and maintaining
the game. Some of these long-term AR games have
gone on for many years, with the oldest being almost
twenty years old.
   Short-term AR games, on the other hand, last be-
tween several hours and several days. The people run-
ning these games typically rent out a hotel or a park
and various public buildings for the duration. These
games are almost always highly dramatic and consist
of everything from the players having to deal with
a massive zombie attack or alien invasion to them
participating in some simulation of an event on Earth,
like the storming of the Bastille during the French
Revolution. While such AR games can be consider-
ably less detailed than VR worlds or vidgames, many
players value the “realism” of being physically present
during the game.
   Since participants in AR games take actions in the
real world, including actions that could be disruptive
or even dangerous, designers of AR games take great
care to prevent problems. In some early AR games,
most of which took place more than twenty years
before the Fall, players were occasionally seriously
injured. A few unscrupulous AR game designers used
their game as a cover for an actual robbery or act
of terrorism that was abetted by unwitting players
who thought their actions were simply part of a game.
