Since that time, law enforcement observation drones
have kept careful track of people playing AR games.
In almost all habitats, people running AR games must
register their games with local law enforcement or
face serious fines.

VR WORLDS
Virtual reality (VR) worlds are entertainments that
involve the creation of a large and highly immersive
simulated environment—a simulspace—where many
major characters are played by transhumans or other
sentient beings. Unlike vids or vidgames, simulspaces
are specifically designed for a large number of par-
ticipants. VR worlds consist of everything from dupli-
cates of various eras of Earth history to elaborate and
strange fantasy worlds with magic, dragons, and simi-
lar wonders. All manner of alien worlds or settings
based on oddities like time travel are also common. As
is the case with vids, the most popular simulspaces are
those set on Earth some time before the Fall.
   VR worlds can have from dozens to tens of thou-
sands of participants. For the best experience, many
users prefer to access simulspaces through hardwired
server connections as they offer better quality and
less disruptions than accessing wirelessly via the
mesh. Since people immersed in virtual reality are cut
off from their bodies and often thrash around, most
users ensconce their morphs in a tank or special couch
for the duration. VR parlors typically offer private
hardwired pods for participants to physically jack in.
Many habitats also have hardwired systems used just
for this purpose, so users can experience VR from the
comfort of their own dwellings.
   Due to distance and communication lags between
habitats, even the most popular online simulspaces
run each habitat as a separate realm, limiting interac-
tion with users in other habitats/realms. The popular-
ity of VR worlds like Gilded Empire, set in England
in the 1880s, means that someone moving from one
habitat or world to another could continue playing in
the same game, albeit with a new set of players.
   One of the other unusual features of VR settings is
that a large number of infomorphs, including many
infomorph refugees, play these games. As a result,
while even most novice players can learn to easily tell
the difference between a character played by an AI
and one played by an actual person, there is no way
to know if the person playing a character has a physi-
cal body or not.

PHYSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
In addition to a vast array of electronic and
electronically-mediated entertainments, people also
still enjoy a wide variety of physical sports, ranging
from soccer to new sports like low-g air races, where
the participants strap on wings and engage in tests
of speed and acrobatics. In addition, the ability to
both heal any injury in a healing vat and to remove a
cortical stack from a dead or dying body and place it
in a new morph has given rise to a new variety of ex-
treme sports. Starting a decade before the Fall, vari-
ous individuals began realizing that, barring unlikely
circumstances, they could not die unless they wanted
to. This set off a brief trend in extreme sports and
even a few wealthy suicide hobbyists, who repeatedly
killed off their current morph in a variety of unusual
ways. The Fall and the permanent death of more
than ninety percent of humanity greatly reduced the
interest in playing with death for many years. Kill-
ing yourself just to experience death is considered
at least mildly distasteful, and many believe such
actions belittle the mass deaths of the Fall. Though
interest in risking death in the line of entertainment
has been growing, deliberate suicide remains an ec-
centric and dubiously regarded hobby.
   In some subcultures, dueling has been a popular fad
for almost a decade. Swords, knives, and pistols firing
single-shot soft lead bullets are all popular choices,
because none of these weapons poses any threat to a
cortical stack and most do not instantly kill someone
hit by them. However, there are other more exotic
options, including aerial duels with microlights fitted
with blades on their wings. On rare occasions, duels
take place in space, with the participants wearing
non-armored vacuum suits. Certain criminal groups
make money with underground dueling circuits, pit-
ting biomorphs against robots against uplifts. The
seedier circuits engage in distasteful pit fights featur-
ing illegally-acquired backups sleeved into non-sen-
tient animals, often outfitted with lethal cybernetics.
Such creatures are typically quite mad.
   In addition, dangerous non-combative sports are
also popular. The highest levels of competitive rock
climbing on Mars are regularly done with no safety
equipment. There are similar climbing competitions
in many habitats using artificially constructed climb-
ing walls as well as regular free-running competitions
through almost every city and habitat. Also, there is
an entire class of sports, including both diving and
parachuting, where perfection of form is seen as
a far more important goal than avoiding injury or
even death. As a result, current high dive records for
morphs not specially modified to survive high impacts
are held by individuals who required either time in a
healing vat or resleeving immediately after their suc-
cessful breaking of a previous record.
