POLITICS AND POWER
Politics is just as important in the colonies spread
throughout the solar system as it was back on Earth,
but it is also radically different. Each habitat or cluster
of stations is a separate political entity, and many of
these habitats are fiercely independent. The only loca-
tions where large political entities can exist are on the
marginally habitable worlds of Mars and Europa, and
the population of Europa is significantly smaller than
that of many of the largest pre-Fall cities on Earth.

THE INNER SYSTEM
Though nations no longer exist, they have been re-
placed by new political-economic entities that may
well have been on the road to dominance even if the
Fall had not occurred: the hypercorps. While there
are a many independent habitats and settlements in
the inner system, it is largely dominated by the hy-
percorps. To reduce conflict between themselves and
promote the survival of transhumanity, some of the
hypercorps have formed an alliance known as the
Planetary Consortium. This alliance governs most of
Mars and is in charge of the ongoing Martian terra-
forming project. It also controls several dozen other
habitats and many Lunar bases, mostly ones that are
in some way involved with the massive Martian ter-
raforming effort.
   Since Mars is home to more than forty percent of
the surviving transhuman population, most of the
human population lives under the rule of the hyper-
corps or the Planetary Consortium. In the aftermath
of the Fall, the hypercorps established three important
goals: rebuilding the solar system, protecting them-
selves from any further attacks (either by the TITANs
or any other threats), and growing in both wealth
and power. By extension, the second goal means they
also help protect the people living in the habitats
and settlements against any repeat of the Fall. The
hypercorps and the Planetary Consortium are exceed-
ingly skilled at attaining all of these goals. Since popu-
lar rebellion and widespread dissent are not helpful in
the least in attaining these goals, the hypercorps are
also adept at making certain the inhabitants of the
habitats and planetary settlements they control are
safe, relatively content, and, ideally, unable to cause
serious problems.
   As the largest and most well organized entities in
the solar system, the hypercorps, and especially the
Planetary Consortium, are in an excellent position to
protect the people living in their habitats and settle-
ments. However, this protection comes at the price
of freedom. Living in habitats that use transitional
economies (p. 61), the inhabitants of hypercorp-con-
trolled settlements are relatively well off and need not
fear starvation or serious want. Also, the hypercorps
strongly oppose bioconservatism, and so anyone who
can afford various augmentations or morphs is free
to obtain them, as long as none of these augmenta-
tions or morphs is equipped with weaponry that can
be used to harm the habitat or large numbers of its
inhabitants. In return for safety and relative prosper-
ity, however, inhabitants give up any ability to voice
more than token criticisms of the hypercorps of the
Planetary Consortium.

THE POWER OF THE HYPERCORPS
AND THE PLANETARY CONSORTIUM
The hypercorps and associated Planetary Consortium
are the only major non-local political entities in the
solar system (with the possible exception of the Au-
tonomist Alliance, which is more of a mutual aid pact
than a unified political entity). All of the other politi-
cal entities are based in a single specific location. The
various hypercorps transcend location, however. They
have offices and branches all over the solar system,
serving the needs of people from Pluto to Mercury
and all places in between. While most hypercorps
