have large manufacturing and processing installations
on Mercury or Venus, making use of the abundant
energy of the first and the complex chemistry of the
second, much of the work performed by all of the
hypercorps involves developing new technologies and
new cornucopia machine templates, both of which can
be done in any place that has meshbrowsing access.
   In addition to bases on Mercury, Venus, and other
equally resource-rich locations, all hypercorps main-
tain dedicated research and manufacturing stations
scattered throughout the solar system. Well-known
facilities include Starware's vast shipyards, the largest
of which are located on Luna and the asteroid Vesta,
and Omnicor's huge antimatter factory orbiting Mer-
cury. There are many other lesser-known facilities,
including the automated mines that the mysterious
Zrbny Group maintains in the main asteroid belt and
Saturn's rings, and the qubit factory Nimbus main-
tains in Mars orbit.
   In addition, there is an even larger number of
secure and often secret research installations, some
of which are so well hidden that they are normally
only accessible via highly secure egocaster connec-
tions. All manner of mysterious and often highly
dangerous research occurs in such locations, ranging
from experiments with the relics of the TITANs to
attempts to create self-replicating nanotechnology or
artificial miniature black holes. Vids and vidgames
are filled with stories both of exotic disasters in
such research stations and of heroic thieves steal-
ing amazing wonders from them. While the reality
of secret corporate research bases is normally far
more prosaic, sometimes wonders are created—and
there have been occasional disasters, often involving
TITAN relics.
   Some corporate headquarters are similarly secure
and secret, including the corporate headquarters
of the fabled Zrbny Group. There are a wealth of
rumors and stories about such locations. Intrepid
spies, thieves, and reporters regularly attempt to gain
access to these facilities, generally without success.
Many such attempts, especially by would-be thieves
and spies, end with distinctly negative consequences,
including the thieves' temporary (and on some occa-
sions permanent) death.
   Hypercorps also own and manage a number of
habitats. Many are primarily homes for hypercorp
employees, but in many of them at least half of the
population are simply ordinary residents of the solar
system who simply happen to live there. Though far
less regulated than hypercorp research or manufac-
turing facilities, these colonies are also subject to
greater regulation and security than some of the
autonomist-controlled habitats on the edges of the
solar system.
  These stations are exceptionally safe places to live.
Residents have access to all of the latest products
produced by the ruling hypercorp and its corporate
allies. The hypercorp habitats all either possess their
own security companies or have some form of de-
fense contract with a private security company, typi-
cally Direct Action or Medusan Shield, who agree to
protect the inhabitants against potential threats by
agents of the TITANs, fanatical saboteurs, or other
threats.
   These same security forces also protect the hyper-
corps from any threats to their interests. In most of
these habitats, residents have fairly open freedom
of expression and biological self-determination.
However, all potential threats to the hypercorp and
its personnel, ranging from attempted sabotage
to simple civil disobedience, are dealt with quite
harshly, with serious offences resulting in forced in-
denture and occasionally forced mental editing (see
Psychosurgery, p. 229). Almost all of these habitats
use a transitional economy (p. 61) and most residents
have a high standard of living to compensate for the
limits on their behavior. Many inhabitants of the
more independent colonies in the belt or the outer
system complain about the repressive nature of the
hypercorp-controlled habitats, but inhabitants of
these habitats prefer the safety and security found
there to the intimidating freedom of the outer system.
   To help reduce dissent, residents of settlements and
habitats controlled by the Planetary Consortium as
well as those controlled by hypercorps can vote on
a wide variety of issues. The results of these votes,
however, are only binding on issues that are not
considered “matters of habitat survival,” “corporate
policy,” or “security-related issues,” which effectively
includes any issue related to the security, profits, and
productivity of the hypercorps involved. Votes on
these issues are used in a purely advisory fashion,
meaning that they are utterly ignored when the result
of the vote is at odds with the hypercorps' agendas.
   While residents of these settlements and habitats
can vote about adding a new holiday to honor some
important figure or the location and design of a
new park, laws regulating indentures, habitat secu-
rity, law-enforcement, or other important concerns
remain under the control of the hypercorps. This
does not mean, however, that the results of elections
are completely disregarded. If more than two-thirds
of the population strongly supports a particular
issue, the Consortium or the hypercorp controlling
the habitat usually finds ways to modify their current
policies to address these concerns without harm-
ing their own interests. In contrast, if only a small
number of residents are upset by certain policies,
then these wishes are ignored and habitat security
forces keep an eye out for possible civil disobedience
or other forms of resistance.
   In addition to these dedicated installations and
hypercorp-controlled habitats, many hypercorps
maintain offi ces in stations and planetary settle-
ments. Almost every habitat has a Nimbus office
with a farcaster and, in the case of larger habitats,
QE communicator facilities for instantaneous
