communication. Both facilities are open to anyone
who can pay Nimbus's fees. Ecologene, Skinaesthesia,
and several other hypercorps also have offices on
most habitats. Every habitat interested in interact-
ing with the rest of transhumanity has at least one
automated Experia media node. In smaller habitats,
these offices are unobtrusive and managed by limited
AIs or indentured infomorphs. The existence of these
offices, however, is vitally necessary for the contin-
ued happiness and existence of transhumanity. Most
hypercorps also maintain a number of employees in
every large habitat and most of the smaller ones.
   Due to the large number of remaining infomorph
refugees, most Experia media nodes are managed by
indentured infomorphs. These infomorphs monitor
the local news-finding AIs and keeps track of any
important or interesting developments. They also
serve as on-site reporters for any important events
that might occur. While postings in small habitats
are often rather dull, the infomorph usually has a
contract guaranteeing them a morph of their choice
and resleeving in the habitat of their choice in return
for a term of service, which typically ranges from
three to five years.
   Similarly, all but the smallest habitats have Medu-
san Shield or Direct Action offices, where individuals
can hire both security consultants and bodyguards
ranging from simple AIs to highly trained mercenar-
ies in fully-equipped fury morphs. These mercenaries
live on the station and often hire short-term contrac-
tors to help with especially large or difficult assign-
ments. Skilled mercenaries may eventually be hired
full-time by Medusan Shield or Direct Action, but
since contractors are usually given the most danger-
ous and thankless parts of any assignment, many
soon lose interest in hypercorp contract work.
   Other employees working out of local hypercorp
offices range from ecosystem designers to for-hire sci-
entists and technicians to personal financial advisors
to the wealthy and powerful. In important habitats
and planetary settlements, as much as twenty percent
of the population consists of hypercorp employees
or private contractors who are hired on a short-term
basis when the local workload exceeds the capacity
of the regular staff. These hypercorp employees are
in the unique position of having dual loyalties—to
their habitat and to their hypercorp. Despite what
hypercorp propaganda preaches, the two interests do
not always overlap.
   Because of the delays involved in normal com-
munication, local heads of hypercorp offices usually
have a great deal of autonomy, since asking for in-
structions from their superiors on another habitat or
installation requires either dealing with a time-lag or
using expensive qubits for instant QE communica-
tion. As a result, except for the most important or
difficult problems, local directors deal with all local
matters on their own, reporting any unusual or po-
tentially problematic decisions afterwards.
THE OUTER SYSTEM
Out beyond the orbit of Mars, the influence of the
hypercorps and the Planetary Consortium is far more
limited. With the exception of the rigidly authoritarian
Jovian Republic, the inhabitants of the outer system
have considerably more freedom than those living in
the inner system. However, even out here the struggle
between the desire for freedom and the longing for
safety form an important part of the political discourse.

THE LIBERTARIAN AND UTOPIAN LEGACIES
Various forms of anarchism and similar libertarian
ideologies were quite common among the first trans-
humans who settled space in the two decades before
the Fall. Many settlements in the outer system have
inherited this legacy of freedom. The new frontier
opened by space colonization presented a fantastic
opportunity for those with a strong desire to avoid
the authoritarianism of the hypercorp-controlled
inner system and Earth to pursue social organizations
more based in equality and collective action, or even
to simply experiment with new social models. Out
beyond the belt, hypercorp influence was weak and
preoccupied, giving resourceful colonists a chance to
explore their interests unmolested. The more radical
of these elements grew out of or maintained ties to
progressive, radical, and left-wing social movements
and insurgencies on Earth, drawing support where
they could. Others simply stole hypercorp resources
from the inner system, smuggling them to their secret
projects. In a few cases, entire ships or stations mu-
tinied, refusing corporate orders and pursuing their
own path. It was rarely feasible for the hypercorps to
pursue and punish such subversion.
   Even among these libertines, differences existed, so
that those adhering to similar socio-political tenden-
cies tended to group together. Over time these have
developed into four rough groupings: the anarchists
of Locus, the techno-socialists of Titan, the anarcho-
capitalists and mutualists of Extropia, and the no-
madic free-for-all societies of the individualist scum.
These factions form a loose alliance, a united front
against the hypercorps and Jovian Republic—or as
they call it, the Jovian Junta—and a pact for mutual
aid and support, known as the Autonomist Alliance.
   Among the more libertine habitats, the centuries-
old doctrine of “From each according to their ability,
to each according to their need” is a living and vital
philosophy. The ready availability of cornucopia
machines ensures that no one wants, and the use of
reputation systems encourages people to be active par-
ticipants towards the common good. Equitable access
to morphs and augmentations is also available for resi-
dents, though the demand from so many infomorphs
in need of a body means that infugees must contribute
and build up social capital. However, even for an info-
morph, egocasting across the solar system is expensive,
and the Planetary Consortium produces large amounts
of propaganda about the dangers of these habitats to
discourage infugees from considering escape.
