  Many autonomists consider themselves to be
engaged in an ideological conflict with the inner
system, a memetic cold war that sometimes extends
to physical actions. Some willingly pursue campaigns
of sabotage and subversion against hypercorp and
other authoritarian affairs, such as smuggling cornu-
copia machines into habitats where such machines
are strictly regulated, like among the Jovian Republic.
The hypercorps and their allies occasionally strike
back, though open conflict is rare. Even though the
inner system and Jovian Republic could field enough
military might to subdue the autonomist factions, an
uneasy detente exists. Rumors abound that the an-
archists have some sort of card in their pocket that
keeps their opponents at bay, perhaps even some
threat of mutually-assured destruction.
  Concerns over security and potential future at-
tacks by the TITANs also impact matters in the outer
system, but most people resist attempts to seriously
restrict their personal freedoms in any manner not di-
rectly related to maintaining their safety. Inhabitants
of the outer system still remember how the old gov-
ernments' demands of adherence to bioconservativism
and allegiance to distant and often unresponsive lead-
ers did nothing to prevent the Fall from happening,
and that memory fuels their mistrust of those states.
Those powers were undone by failing to deliver what
they promised—when they could not provide the se-
curity that they claimed their authoritarian measures
would bring, the seeds of their defeat in the outer
system were planted.

SPACE FOR EXPERIMENTATION
Both social and political experimentation are common
in many of the smaller habitats of the outer system.
Because collective decision-making is fairly easy in
stations with populations of less than ten thousand,
direct democracy is a common method of government.
A number of ideologically-based habitats have used
this ease of making collective decisions as a way to
get all members to agree to some unusual forms of
government.
   The individual variants that have been tried are
too numerous to list, though they generally fit into
a few general categories. A few relatively small habi-
tats employ limited forms of authoritarianism. Some
have a single leader who has great power, but who is
(ideally) kept from abuse or excess through the use
of limits such as a list of constitutionally-guaranteed
rights or the ability of a relatively small number of
people to call an election or a vote of confidence.
Some colonies using this model have elected dictators
who serve for a limited term, while others are ruled
by a single charismatic leader who transforms their
habitat into a cult of personality.
   Other habitats choose their leaders by random
lot, with every adult who can pass a relatively easy
competency test being eligible to be the colony's
leader for a period that usually ranges from six
months to five years. A few habitats are governed
by powerful specialized AIs, which in very few
cases are actually hyper-intelligent AGIs or even
seed AIs that the colony has secretly created. Sev-
eral colonies populated by purely informorph or
synthmorph inhabitants use special high-bandwidth
connections to give their members access each
other's surface thoughts and emotional reactions,
allowing them to hold vast democratic political
meetings where everyone present can feel the gen-
eral emotional reactions of all of the other members
as easily as they can feel their own.
  There are a vast number of different types of gov-
ernment, many of which have never existed before,
moving (and sometimes fumbling) ahead in the outer
system. Some work far better than others, allowing
successful colonies to thrive and making much of the
outer system a vast and complex political laboratory.



KEEPING THE PEACE
Each habitat is responsible for dealing with its in-
ternal affairs. As a result, standards of justice vary
widely from the oppressive police state of the Jovian
Junta to the free market judicial courts of the Extro-
pians in the belt to the community justice policies
of the anarchists out beyond Saturn. Travelers are
strongly encouraged to check up on the legalities and
policies of stations they are visiting so as to avoid
unfortunate incidents, though muses are generally
quite good about maintaining awareness of local
conditions so that they can warn their users before
straying into gray or illegal territory.
   In the inner system, standards of justice and law en-
forcement tend to be uniform and very familiar to the
majority of the population that lived on Earth prior
to the Fall, where most nations had relatively similar
standards of justice. Across the entire solar system,
certain similar standards can be found. Though local
laws may differ, there is widespread respect for the
idea that punishments for religious or ideologically-
based laws only apply to residents. Visitors who vio-
late such restrictions or other minor laws are simply
deported to their home and forbidden to return.
Standards of evidence for criminal investigations are
also common. Modern forensic technology makes col-
lecting and analyzing DNA and other trace evidence
an exceptionally swift and easy process. Likewise,
with almost all habitats having what amounts to total
surveillance of all public places, any potential offenses
committed there can be carefully analyzed.
   Standards of privacy vary widely from one habitat
to another, so during emergencies or crime investi-
gations, law enforcement officials may or may not
have total access to detailed recordings of the events
in any portion of the habitat including recordings
from sensors in private dwellings. In some stations,
law enforcement officials can compel everyone who
might have been present during an alleged crime to
