provide downloads of their sensory experiences from
the time of the crime. While individuals can edit their
memories, discrepancies between various people's
sensory recordings are just another form of evidence.
Requiring sensory downloads from witnesses and
suspects is common practice in habitats controlled
by the Planetary Consortium, the Jovian Republic,
and most hypercorps. However, in most habitats in
the outer system, law enforcement officials have no
access to such records and can only compel sensory
recordings from people who have been charged with
serious crimes.
   The power of modern forensics is such that a suf-
ficiently careful examination of people and places
can often determine the nature of a crime and the
perpetrator(s) with relative ease. Decisions of in-
nocence or guilt rarely rely upon suppositions, cir-
cumstantial evidence, eyewitness testimony or any of
the other notoriously unreliable forms of evidence
common in past centuries. The best way for some-
one to avoid being convicted of a crime is to either
prevent anyone from learning about the crime or
to make certain that no one suspects them as the
perpetrator. Once someone guilty of a crime becomes
a suspect, there is a very significant chance that law
enforcement officers will be able to uncover reliable
evidence connecting them to the crime. However, if
there is no obvious evidence connecting a specific
suspect to a crime, the criminal has a greater chance
of escaping discovery.
LAW ENFORCEMENT
Law enforcement in the solar system consists of a
vast patchwork of separate jurisdictions, occasionally
united by various treaties. Most habitats have signed
the Treaty of Uniform Security that requires either ex-
tradition or on-site trial of criminals who are accused
of especially serious crimes such as attempted habitat
destruction, use of incapacitating infoware (including
basilisk hack attacks), or any attempt to aid the agents
of the TITANs in taking over or destroying a habitat.
Only the Jovian Junta and a few especially antisocial
or anarchic habitats have not signed this treaty, but
many habitats in the outer system maintain the right
to try offenders accused by other habitats rather than
extraditing them. In addition, most habitats require a
significant amount of evidence before they are willing
to extradite one of their residents.
   Outside the Treaty of Uniform Security, there is
nothing remotely resembling a uniform code of jus-
tice and no widely recognized police force. Instead,
each habitat or cluster maintains their own code of
laws and law enforcement officers. In most areas, law
enforcement is a respected and honorable profession
paid for by the government, but in a few, the only
options are private security agencies that only protect
individuals who subscribe to their services. Among
the anarchists and scum, residents are largely re-
sponsible for their own protection, which means they
may be constantly armed when in public (depending
