on local conditions). Depending on the stations, the
most someone who is the victim of a crime can do
may be to go after their attacker or post a bounty.
In others, mechanisms exist for community or collec-
tive problem-solving that often involve assembling an
ad-hoc grouping of peers to assess the situation, offer
non-biased judgment, and sometimes pursue collec-
tive action.
   The only widely-accepted law enforcement offi-
cers that attempt to maintain jurisdiction across the
solar system are bonded investigators and security
consultants from companies such as Medusan Shield
or Direct Action. Both organizations have contracts
with various hypercorps and inner system stations to
provide security. However, in the outer system and in
other regions not controlled (directly or indirectly) by
the hypercorps, the status of these officers is far more
tenuous. In habitats that do not have security con-
tracts with their organization, the best these agents
can do is act as bounty hunters.
   Due to extensive stories of excesses in the inner
system, many colonies frown on freelance bounty
hunters—often referred to as ego hunters—and may
ban them entirely. Others allow agents from licensed
security hypercorps to act as ego hunters, but forbid
them from extraditing or otherwise restraining or
punishing the criminals they are pursuing. Instead,
agents are required to turn over evidence so that the
habitat's own judicial system may hold a trial, in
which case a convicted person may be remanded to
the agent's custody. Law enforcement officers experi-
ence similar difficulties attempting to apprehend a
suspect who has fled to another habitat.
   Closely allied habitats in the outer system usually
allow full or at least limited legal powers to visiting
law enforcement officers from their allies. There are
also various small private security organizations that
work closely with local law enforcement offices to
provide inter-habitat security between habitats that
are not closely allied. The members of these organi-
zations attempt to maintain sufficiently high rep to
earn the respect of all the habitats with which they
work. They act as both bounty hunters and unbiased
investigators in situations that involve the laws of
several habitats. All of these security companies are
located in the outer system, and none has jurisdiction
extending beyond a relatively limited location, like
the middle belt or the Saturn system. Any such orga-
nizations that attempt to grow larger come into direct
competition with Medusan Shield and Direct Action
and are subsequently either bought out or undercut
and discredited by one or both of these organizations.
   There are also several private bounty hunters and
private investigators, some of whom are highly reli-
able. Others are known for their extreme moral and
ethical flexibility, especially if the pay is sufficiently
high. On some of the autonomist stations and scum
ships, these private contractors can be hired to simply
go on board and abduct or execute a resident as long
as this person has a low enough rep. Attempting to
abduct or kill a respected member of the community,
however, rapidly earns the ire of the entire habitat.
The various small-scale or private security organiza-
tions from the outer system can sometimes pursue
subjects to habitats controlled by the various hyper-
corps or the Planetary Consortium. Doing so requires
background checks, security screenings, and often
moderately large payments.

PUNISHMENT
Among the autonomist colonies, forced exile or repay-
ing the victim with an equitable amount of goods or
labor are the principle punishments for all but the most
heinous crimes (such as attempted mass murder, habitat
destruction, attempting to create seed AIs or similarly
extreme actions). In the collectivist anarchist habitats,
antisocial behavior typically involves expulsion or
penalizing reputation, though solutions that involve
making amends are often pursued over standard pun-
ishments. At the other end of the spectrum, people con-
victed of more serious crimes in the most violent and
lawless habitats are executed and all of their known
backups destroyed. In many others, exceedingly serious
crimes are usually dealt with by giving the criminal a
choice of forced uploading into a humanely outfitted
but closed computer or mandatory personality modi-
fication—assuming that someone has not simply killed
the criminal before they were brought to justice (such
killings are generally treated as matters of self-defense).
Mandatory personality modifications are generally
limited to the absolute minimum necessary to prevent
the individual from repeating similar crimes.
   At the other extreme, punishments in hypercorp-
controlled habitats and settlements controlled by the
Planetary Consortium range from fines paid in either
money or labor to periods of involuntary indentured
servitude ranging from several months to many years.
Violent crimes, especially ones threatening either
important hypercorp employees or the habitat as a
whole, also result in mandatory personality modifica-
tion. Such modifications often include the creation of a
strong sense of loyalty and obedience to the hypercorp.
   Punishments are even more draconic in the Jovian
Republic, where permanent execution and the de-
struction of all backups is the most common punish-
ment for serious crimes against the leaders or large
groups of the populace. Since the rulers of the Repub-
lic are strong bioconservatives, personality editing and
forced uploading are rarely used. Forced indenture is
very common, however, as are more standard forms of
imprisonment. The Republic is one of the last places
in the solar system that has physical prisons.
   The vast majority of other habitats fall somewhere
between these extremes. Punishments for non-violent
crimes consist of enforced repayment, where the of-
fender must work off a debt to their victim or victims
or face more serious punishments. Instead of enforced
indenture, offenders usually must only work between
five and twenty hours a week for their victims and
only need to do so until the crime has been suitably
