repaid. The typical repayment is between two and
three times the value of the good or service taken
from the victim.



THE ECONOMY
Leaving aside the struggles of bands of primitives to
survive on the ruins of Earth, all of humanity has at
least some access to the wonders of nanotechnology.
This access is highly variable and the economic ben-
efits it produces can be divided into three broad cat-
egories—the old economy, the transitional economy,
and the new economy.

THE OLD ECONOMY
The old economy is essentially the same sort of indus-
trial consumer capitalism that has been in place since
the late 19th century, a system centered on manufac-
turers who create material goods and sell them to
consumers. Modern manufacturers now make their
goods in cornucopia machines instead of factories, but
the essential pattern is the same one that has existed
for over two hundred years. Due to the high level of
inefficiency and unfairness in this economic system,
poverty is relatively common. The poorest individuals
often face hunger, homelessness, lack of medical care,
and similarly dire problems.
   Ordinary members of this society never have direct
access to cornucopia machines. Instead, they pur-
chase their goods from corporations, governments,
or wealthy individuals who control them. Some old
economy societies have planned economies, where the
corporations or the state determine what options the
citizens may choose or occasionally what goods they
must have. Others claim to have a free market, where
citizens have more options, but the residents must still
pay to obtain goods that are essentially free for the
corporations or government to produce.
   In the present day, almost no one willingly lives in
old economy societies. Very few individuals even visit
such societies. The oppressive Jovian Republic holds
most of the remaining old economy societies in the
solar system. The few other surviving examples are
totalitarian regimes where the wealthy elite maintain
absolute control of all cornucopia machines and pri-
vate ownership of one is a very serious crime. Since
cornucopia machines can be used to create more
cornucopia machines, maintaining strict control over
them requires constant vigilance.
   Residents of old economy societies tend to look at
residents of transitional and new economy societies
with envy, while residents of habitats that use both
transitional and new economies look upon residents
of old economy habitats with a mixture of horror and
pity. Since the Fall, almost a third of the remaining
old economy-based habitats have transformed into
transitional or new economies by various means,
often involving violent revolution. Most social scien-
tists predict that unless there are further catastrophes,
all but the most repressive old economy societies are
almost certain to transform to transitional economies
within twenty to thirty years.
