  Old economy societies are unique in that money is
the society's only acceptable means of exchange. While
reputation networks exist, they are informal and serve
as an unsanctioned means of exchanging favors.

THE TRANSITIONAL ECONOMY
The transitional economy is a far more stable and
easily maintained system than the old economy.
Transitional economies blend old and new economies,
and habitats using this system feature both private
ownership of cornucopia machines as well as public
fabbers and makers that are freely accessible. These
public machines are strictly limited in the goods they
can produce. In addition, the raw materials for vari-
ous complex goods are also strictly regulated. Mars,
Venus, and Luna are all examples of transitional
economies, as is most of the rest of the inner system.
   For the inhabitants of a transitional economy, cre-
ating food, non-smart clothing, furniture, and most
other simple, non-formatible objects is a trivial matter.
However, the public nanofabrication machines can
only create objects that either contain no electronics
at all or contain only simple circuits that report on the
object's condition and location. Manufacturing any
of these items requires little more than the machine
and a supply of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen,
silicon, iron, aluminum, and tiny amounts of various
trace materials. All of these materials are sufficiently
abundant that acquiring them is easy and inexpensive.
   Using the elements that are freely available to all
tax-paying citizens, nanofabbers can produce a vast
array of goods like exquisite suits of silk clothing,
tables with the appearance of finely polished ebony
and mahogany, beautiful colored glass goblets, or
painted porcelain tea cups. They can also create a
gourmet dinner and a set of fine plates and cutlery on
which to eat the meal. To pay for the small amounts
of energy and resources needed to create these goods,
all inhabitants pay a small tax.
   Once the usage tax has been paid, food, clothing,
furniture, and similar goods are all free. Raw materi-
als, old, worn-out or unwanted goods, and various
waste products are recycled into new goods. Residents
of transitional economies need never experience
hunger or any of the many other sorts of deprivation
that much of humanity faced before the mid-21st cen-
tury. Additionally, basic medical care is free in almost
all transitional economy societies, to help insure that
the populace is healthy, content, and productive.
   While many goods are freely available, there are
also goods that residents must purchase from corpo-
rations, their government, or other producers. Smart
clothing and smart furniture that can change shape,
color, and pattern, depending upon the user's wishes,
cannot be manufactured in any of the personal nano-
fabricators. Any goods made from highly durable
composite materials, batteries, electrically-powered
devices including all augmentations, and all nanotech-
nology must be acquired in the same fashion. These
goods are considerably less common as they require
access to an unrestricted nanofabricator and exotic
raw materials.
   Transitional economies tend to be relatively safe
places, since inhabitants cannot manufacture weapons
more dangerous than knives, clubs, or similar primi-
tive armaments. Everything from firearms to plasma
weapons requires restricted cornucopia machines and
exotic materials to manufacture. The proliferation of
these items is strictly controlled.
   Some habitats in the outer system have transi-
tional economies because residents prefer the safety
that comes from centralizing control of potentially
dangerous technologies. Other habitats have transi-
tional economies by default, because they have limited
stocks of many of the more rare elements required
for manufacturing various complex modern tech-
nologies. Regardless of the reason, outsiders from new
economy habitants often see them as somewhat poor
and deprived, while many residents of transitional
economies consider new economy societies both ex-
ceptionally wealthy and somewhat frightening.
   Despite these differences in perception, both eco-
nomic societies have a great deal in common. Food,
clothing, and similar goods are easily available to
all residents. An individual's status, taste, wealth,
and reputation are measured by the kinds of cloth-
ing, food, and furnishings they possess. While there
are a vast number of templates for different styles of
food and consumer goods, forward-thinking design-
ers develop new designs every month and use copy
protection on these designs to keep them from being
pirated for at least a month or two (and often longer).
As a result, for the first few months after their release,
the only people who can gain access to new designs in
clothing, tableware, food, or similar goods are those
who pay a premium to the designer to download the
templates that allow their cornucopia machine to
manufacture the item.
   Since one way of defining a transitional economy
is a system where both reputation and money are
in widespread use, most have developed ways to ac-
commodate both forms of payment. While residents
primarily use money for purchasing goods, purchas-
ing cornucopia machine templates involves rep,
especially among residents who regularly visit new
economy societies or have significant contacts there.

THE NEW ECONOMY
Slightly less than forty percent of the human popula-
tion lives under some version of what social scientists
refer to as the new economy. In the outer system, alter-
native economies are becoming increasingly rare. New
economies are much better than old or transitional
economies at supporting a decentralized populace,
which has led to more than half of all habitats and
settlements adopting this model.
   In new economy societies, individuals can freely
manufacture and use almost anything they want, as-
suming they can acquire the correct templates and
raw materials. As a result, the residents' need for food,
