RESTRICTING
DANGEROUS
TECHNOLOGIES
Most societies in Eclipse Phase see good reason to
restrict access to some dangerous goods, espe-
cially military hardware. Few people living in a
sealed habitat surrounded by hard vacuum enjoy
the idea of easy access to biowar plagues or de-
vices that can make large holes in their habitat's
outer hull. Though such incidents are quite rare,
the memories of horrors like the recent Branson-
Vesta disaster are still quite fresh. In that inci-
dent, a radical bioconservative cult manufactured
several plasma bombs and accidentally destroyed
the entire habitat when their attack on the
local government caused a cascading blowout,
cracking the spinning habitat in half. More than
50,000 residents had to be resleeved, and 400
permanently died when their backups and corti-
cal stacks were destroyed in the explosions.
   As a result, standard procedure is to restrict
access and heavily encrypt templates needed to
create military-grade weapons and similar dan-
gers, though sufficiently dedicated individuals
can eventually decrypt or reverse-engineer such
designs. Even nanofabricators in anarchist habi-
tats may be blocked from creating such things or
at the very least will alert the local public mesh
if anyone instructs them to do so. Habitats that
possess almost no other laws regarding posses-
sion of various objects and devices usually have
laws against weapons that can do serious harm
to the habitat.
   Many dangerous technologies are specifically
designed to make use of various exception-
ally rare or human-made elements, including
radioactive elements and artificially created
transuranic elements. Therefore, many habitats
will restrict access to these elements to limit the
manufacture of these weapons. Since detecting
radioactive elements is simple using standard
environmental sensors located throughout every
habitat, security authorities can easily learn
when someone has acquired significant quan-
tities of such elements, or catch them if they
attempt to bring them on board.                   ■



 clothing, medical care, information access, and other
 basic needs are all easily met. However, there are still
 items of value that individuals work very hard to obtain.
 Though these are commonly described as “post scarcity”
 societies, some types of scarcity remain very real.
    In most new economy habitats, common goods
 are freely available to all residents—or at least to
 all residents who meet certain criteria. These criteria
 usually take one of two forms: citizenship or public
works. In wealthy and prestigious habitats, free access
to all common goods is offered to residents who have
official citizenship. Citizenship can be earned in a
variety of ways, but the most common involves either
being considered a strategic asset due to some singular
expertise, performing an exceedingly valuable service
to the habitat, or working for the habitat for some
period of time. Once an individual is a citizen, the
energy, living space, and raw materials they use in the
course of their daily lives are all freely available.
  In many collectivized habitats, residents are ex-
pected to pull their weight by contributing to ongo-
ing public works in the habitat, typically requiring
between four and eight hours every week. Depending
on the nature of the colony, this work may be selected
by the government, the collective syndicates that
oversee the management of resources, or by a high
rep individual who controls access to large amounts
of energy and raw materials. Unless someone has
especially valuable skills, this labor is often dull but
safe work that can be done more easily by humans
than AIs, such as checking the habitat for flaws and
performing maintenance tasks.
  Assuming an individual has acquired citizenship
or put in their share of work for the collective well-
being of the station, they will have access to a supply
of energy and raw materials that allows them to use
their cornucopia machines to manufacture what they
need. Visitors are generally also allowed access, though
anyone staying long is expected to contribute to the
habitat if they don't want to see their reputation slashed.

VALUE AND SCARCITY IN NEW ECONOMY SOCIETIES
While basic citizenship allowances cover most necessi-
ties and even some luxuries, the allowance has limits.
With the allowance, individuals receive a quota of
goods and energy they can use every day. This usage
is impressively lavish by 20th century terms, allowing
residents to create a dozen suits of clothing and pro-
vide food for half a dozen people every day. Creating
elaborate food, furniture, and tableware to serve a
party of a dozen people is within the means of any in-
dividual. However, doing the same thing for a party of
two hundred people is outside the bounds of the basic
allowance.
   Individuals who wish to exceed their basic citizen-
ship allowance can either use rep to obtain more
access to resources and energy, or they can pool
their resources with others to accomplish their goals.
There are many goods that are fairly complex to
create—including many of the best morphs and highly
specialized and intricate pieces of gear like advanced
augmentations—that exceed the resources available in
a basic citizenship allowance.
   The allowance also limits the amount of travel that
residents can easily undertake. Residents of most new
economy habitats own good quality spacesuits, and
many can use their rep to create a small and very
minimally equipped travel pod to travel to a nearby
habitat. However, even the smallest actual spacecraft
