RESTRICTING                                                  works. In wealthy and prestigious habitats, free access
                                                             to all common goods is offered to residents who have
DANGEROUS                                                    official citizenship. Citizenship can be earned in a
                                                             variety of ways, but the most common involves either
TECHNOLOGIES                                                 being considered a strategic asset due to some singular
                                                             expertise, performing an exceedingly valuable service
Most societies in Eclipse Phase see good reason to
                                                             to the habitat, or working for the habitat for some
restrict access to some dangerous goods, espe-
                                                             period of time. Once an individual is a citizen, the
cially military hardware. Few people living in a
                                                             energy, living space, and raw materials they use in the
sealed habitat surrounded by hard vacuum enjoy
                                                             course of their daily lives are all freely available.
the idea of easy access to biowar plagues or de-
                                                               In many collectivized habitats, residents are ex-
vices that can make large holes in their habitat's
                                                             pected to pull their weight by contributing to ongo-
outer hull. Though such incidents are quite rare,
                                                             ing public works in the habitat, typically requiring
the memories of horrors like the recent Branson-
                                                             between four and eight hours every week. Depending
Vesta disaster are still quite fresh. In that inci-
                                                             on the nature of the colony, this work may be selected
dent, a radical bioconservative cult manufactured
                                                             by the government, the collective syndicates that
several plasma bombs and accidentally destroyed
                                                             oversee the management of resources, or by a high
the entire habitat when their attack on the
                                                             rep individual who controls access to large amounts
local government caused a cascading blowout,
                                                             of energy and raw materials. Unless someone has
cracking the spinning habitat in half. More than
                                                             especially valuable skills, this labor is often dull but
50,000 residents had to be resleeved, and 400
                                                             safe work that can be done more easily by humans
permanently died when their backups and corti-
                                                             than AIs, such as checking the habitat for flaws and
cal stacks were destroyed in the explosions.
                                                             performing maintenance tasks.
   As a result, standard procedure is to restrict
                                                               Assuming an individual has acquired citizenship
access and heavily encrypt templates needed to
                                                             or put in their share of work for the collective well-
create military-grade weapons and similar dan-
                                                             being of the station, they will have access to a supply
gers, though sufficiently dedicated individuals
                                                             of energy and raw materials that allows them to use
can eventually decrypt or reverse-engineer such
                                                             their cornucopia machines to manufacture what they
designs. Even nanofabricators in anarchist habi-
                                                             need. Visitors are generally also allowed access, though
tats may be blocked from creating such things or
                                                             anyone staying long is expected to contribute to the
at the very least will alert the local public mesh
                                                             habitat if they don't want to see their reputation slashed.
if anyone instructs them to do so. Habitats that
possess almost no other laws regarding posses-
sion of various objects and devices usually have
                                                             VALUE AND SCARCITY IN NEW ECONOMY SOCIETIES
                                                             While basic citizenship allowances cover most necessi-
laws against weapons that can do serious harm
                                                             ties and even some luxuries, the allowance has limits.
to the habitat.
                                                             With the allowance, individuals receive a quota of
   Many dangerous technologies are specifically
                                                             goods and energy they can use every day. This usage
designed to make use of various exception-
                                                             is impressively lavish by 20th century terms, allowing
ally rare or human-made elements, including
                                                             residents to create a dozen suits of clothing and pro-
radioactive elements and artificially created
                                                             vide food for half a dozen people every day. Creating
transuranic elements. Therefore, many habitats
                                                             elaborate food, furniture, and tableware to serve a
will restrict access to these elements to limit the
                                                             party of a dozen people is within the means of any in-
manufacture of these weapons. Since detecting
                                                             dividual. However, doing the same thing for a party of
radioactive elements is simple using standard
                                                             two hundred people is outside the bounds of the basic
environmental sensors located throughout every
                                                             allowance.
habitat, security authorities can easily learn
                                                                Individuals who wish to exceed their basic citizen-
when someone has acquired significant quan-
                                                             ship allowance can either use rep to obtain more
tities of such elements, or catch them if they
                                                             access to resources and energy, or they can pool
attempt to bring them on board.                   ■
                                                             their resources with others to accomplish their goals.
                                                             There are many goods that are fairly complex to
                                                             create—including many of the best morphs and highly
 clothing, medical care, information access, and other       specialized and intricate pieces of gear like advanced
 basic needs are all easily met. However, there are still    augmentations—that exceed the resources available in
 items of value that individuals work very hard to obtain.   a basic citizenship allowance.
 Though these are commonly described as “post scarcity”         The allowance also limits the amount of travel that
 societies, some types of scarcity remain very real.         residents can easily undertake. Residents of most new
    In most new economy habitats, common goods               economy habitats own good quality spacesuits, and
 are freely available to all residents—or at least to        many can use their rep to create a small and very
 all residents who meet certain criteria. These criteria     minimally equipped travel pod to travel to a nearby
 usually take one of two forms: citizenship or public        habitat. However, even the smallest actual spacecraft
