RREPRODUCIBLE GOODS
               In an age when digital material is easily cop
               physical goods are reproducible with nano
               tion, concepts like copyright, trademark, and
               tual property are fighting a losing war. Despite
               methods of encryption, DRM, and similar an
               measures, very little escapes the clutches of pi
               long. It's not unheard of for copies/blueprints
               goods to be shared on pirate networks before
               even officially released.




 are far too large and difficult to create to be available
 on an ordinary citizenship allowance, or even on the
 amount of rep an ordinary individual can acquire in a
 reasonable amount of time.
    In addition to large-scale uses of resources and
 difficult-to-manufacture goods, there are goods that
 are intrinsically scarce, such as relics of Earth and
 handmade goods. While exact copies of everything
 from the Mona Lisa to a pressed daisy are exception-
 ally easy to acquire, genuine physical relics of Earth
 are prized possessions. The vast majority of refugees
 could take nothing with them, but almost everyone
 wishes to have some token to remind them of Earth. A
 single dried flower, coin, or piece of stone from Earth
 can be exchanged for almost any morph or other
 good that is moderately difficult to create. Actual
 historical artifacts, like a famous person's hat or au-
 tograph, is worth far more, as are original works of
 art by famous artists. Two years ago, one of the last
 three remaining paintings by Leonardo da Vinci was
 traded for a large and well-equipped spacecraft, and
 a small piece of the Liberty Bell was traded for both
 a custom-designed morph and a fully outfitted one-
 hectare villa in one of the more prosperous habitats
 orbiting Saturn.
    While less expensive than Earth relics, handmade
 goods also command a high price and are in great
 demand by the wealthy. Though most people cannot
 distinguish between a fine wine grown on one of
 the Martian vineyards and a duplicate of the same
 wine produced using an average cornucopia machine,
 some connoisseurs claim they can taste the difference.
 There is also much prestige to be gained by serving
 hand-grown food. As a result, while anyone can drink
 nanofabricated wine, hand-produced wine is a rare
 good that can only be enjoyed by a few, and thus
 it commands a moderately high price. In almost all
 cases, handmade goods are expensive because of their
 rarity and because many people enjoy the status as-
 sociated with owning and using them.
    There are three other items that are scarce and
 are thus quite valuable: living space, skilled sentient
 labor, and novelty. The majority of humanity lives in
 standard-sized dwelling units, which typically range
 from one hundred cubic meters on smaller or poorer
and        In response, some manufacturers, designers, and
ica-    artists attempt to produce goods that are irrepro-
 lec-   ducible—and thus more highly valued. Possible ap-
best    proaches include transgenic living sculptures with
racy    built-in obsolescence and terminator genes, energy art,
  for   items made from extremely rare materials (e.g., a chair
new     crafted from titanium mined from the Mead crater on
 y're   the harsh Venusian surface), or intangibles such as
        skilled performances.




   habitats to two hundred cubic meters on wealthy
   and prosperous habitats. Since each cubic meter of
   a habitat must be manufactured and the process of
   manufacturing or expanding a habitat is far from
   simple, space is at a premium. The only exceptions
   to this scarcity are on Europa and Mars, which can
   be inhabited by properly adapted morphs without
   the necessity of complex life support or the danger of
   vacuum waiting just outside every exterior wall. As
   a result, owning a larger dwelling space in a habitat
   is worth a significant amount, and large villas and
   private asteroids are luxuries possessed by only the
   highest rep individuals.
      While transhuman labor has become relatively
   cheap due to the large number of infugees who must
   sell their services or indenture themselves to obtain
   morphs and habitat space, skilled labor is far more
   expensive. Buying a unique custom morph design, for
   example, crafted by a skilled biogeneticist, can cost as
   much as a small spacecraft depending on how much
   this morph deviates from standard models. The same
   is true for everything from custom-designed clothing
   to complex pieces of technology designed for a single
   specific usage. While the actual manufacturing costs
   of these items is no more expensive than any other
   similar item, the time and effort needed to design
   them can make them exceedingly expensive.
      The final commodity that is both scarce and valu-
   able is novelty. While anyone can drink a fine wine
   or wear a wide range of designer clothing, other
   commodities are kept deliberately scarce. Cutting-
   edge fashion, new music, and even haute nosh (bold,
   exclusive snack food designs) are harder to find be-
   cause the templates needed to manufacture them are
   encrypted and cannot be copied. The copy protection
   used on the templates for newly created goods auto-
   matically expires within three years at most, and most
   habitats reduce this to one year. In addition, this copy
   protection is never perfect; someone always manages
   to create pirated versions of these new goods within
   two to six months. However, from the time templates
   are created until the time that someone pirates them,
   these items are only available to individuals who are
   willing and able to pay for them. Popular new tem-
   plates command a good price in the new economy,
