and a large number of transhumans make their living
designing and marketing such templates.

THE ECONOMY AND INFOMORPH REFUGEES
During the last phase of The Fall and the evacuation
of Earth, more than four hundred million refugees
were uploaded and egocast to orbital databanks. From
there, infomorph refugees were beamed to databanks
throughout the solar system. They were forced to flee
Earth without any of their possessions, even their
bodies. Instead, they became infomorphs who had
nothing beyond their minds and memories—the most
destitute group of refugees ever to exist in human his-
tory. In the years since the Fall, large numbers of these
infugees have been resleeved. Anyone with valuable
skills was first to gain a morph, followed by anyone
with friends or relatives already living in orbit who
could take responsibility for the person's resleeving.
  Those two groups accounted for only half of the
refugees. The remaining found themselves in a far
more difficult situation. Lacking either personal con-
tacts or vital skills, they had no one else to help them.
In the first few years, many of these infugees signed
contracts promising their labor or other services in
return for resleeving and a guarantee of some form
of income sufficient to support them. Because of the
critical labor shortages in the first five years after the
Fall, another thirty percent of the refugees managed
to regain bodies (usually cheap synthmorphs). These
indentured servants performed all manner of critical
tasks, ranging from scavenging ruined habitats for
useful devices to mining or asteroid herding. Others
became servants or bodyguards for the rich, or per-
formed less moral services for criminal syndicates.
Most took on orbital construction jobs, helping to
construct the new habitats that would eventually
become their home. Some infugees found work per-
forming services like data-mining, monitoring auto-
mated factories, or other jobs that could be done by
infomorphs. After the Fall, infomorphs were used to
take over numerous tasks previously handled by AGIs,
who were no longer trusted.
   Unfortunately, some infomorph refugees made bad
or unlucky deals and ended up working for years only
to find that their employer either kept finding ways to
delay or reduce the payment or vanished before they
delivered on their promise. As a result, slightly more
than twenty percent of the original infomorph refu-
gees remain infomorphs; some by choice, but most be-
cause they have not been able to acquire the means to
resleeve themselves or are still working long contracts
to gain their morph. The problem with obtaining
bodies for these infugees goes beyond simply provid-
ing a new morph for resleeving; living beings require
living space as well as a steady supply of consumables.
For this reason, many infugees have been morphed in
synthetic shells and housed in areas inhospitable to
biomorphs, such as the unenclosed portions of Venu-
sian aerostats. With space in short supply, the waiting
list for infugees looking for a habitat to call home is
quite long.
   Both the hypercorps and the Planetary Consor-
tium were quick to make use of this vast labor pool,
especially on Mars. Mars has large amounts of open
space and resources and is sufficiently close to hab-
itable that Mars-adapted morphs like the ruster are
inexpensive to create. As a result, the Planetary Con-
sortium has been responsible for the employment of
almost half of all remaining infomorph refugees.
For the past decade, the vast majority of infomorph
refugees who want bodies have found that indentur-
ing themselves to the Planetary Consortium or one
of the associated hypercorps involved in Martian
terraforming is the most reliable way to find both
a morph and housing, since both are guaranteed
at the end of the contract. The work involved is
particularly difficult, however, and the contracts are
normally quite long. The Planetary Consortium is
