also particularly adept at adding charges that pro-
long indenture—though most indentures carry five
to twenty year contracts, in reality these indentures
typically last between eight and twenty-five years;
some go on even longer. This large population of in-
dentured servants on Mars—many of them now free
and resleeved—is becoming a force in its own right,
adhering to the Martian wilds and rural areas and
disdaining the elite hypercorp domes. Adopting the
name Barsoomians from an old Earth fiction series,
this resentful lower class is increasingly becoming a
thorn in the Planetary Consortium's side.
   Even though it is highly automated, terraforming
and agricultural work on Mars is both tedious and
physically demanding labor. Indentured employees
are regularly sent into the regions that were most
affected by the Fall. As a result, these employees oc-
casionally face attacks by life forms mutated by the
TITANs, nanotech war-swarms, or similar still-active
and dangerous exotic technologies. Indentured em-
ployees are not charged for damage to or destruc-
tion of their morphs caused by such dangers, but the
experience of even reversible death from such causes
is highly traumatic.
   Other refugees found that they enjoyed life as
infomorphs, reveling in complex simulspaces and
otherwise living up the virtual life. Some found work
that paid for the ability to egocast throughout the
solar system. Ten years after the Fall, there is a thriv-
ing infomorph culture. While exact data is difficult to
obtain, many researchers believe that at least a third
of all current infomorph refugees have no plans to
place themselves into a morph, instead enjoying the
freedom of virtual existence. Especially in the outer
system, these infomorphs have become increasingly
involved in habitat politics; many habitats have of-
ficials who are infomorphs. Most researchers predict
this infomorph culture will increasingly diverge from
physical cultures as time progresses.

THE CLANKING MASSES
With so many infugees acquiring cheap synthmorph
shells—particularly cases and synths—and being
unable to afford anything better, synthmorphs have
become associated with poverty throughout the solar
system. This lowest strata of the poor are often referred
to as “the clanking masses,” and compose one-sixth
of the transhuman population. Most of these people
strongly desire to acquire a biomorph, even if it is only
a splicer or worker pod. As a result of their presence,
however, many synthmorphs are now viewed with
distaste, especially in elite social circles. Even those
who have expensive, lovely, custom-designed synthetic
morphs fitted with all of the latest augmentations are
considered to be eccentrics with poor taste.
  The social stigma against synthmorphs is strength-
ened by the fear that, in the event of another attack
by the TITANs, their robotic shells could be rapidly
co-opted to become a deadly TITAN-controlled army.
This has led to some habitats going so far as to active-
ly segregate their synthmorph populations, rational-
ized by the fact that synthmorphs can easily inhabit
unheated and unpressurized portions of various habi-
tats. This segregation and social stigma, however, has
produced the beginnings of an emergent synthmorph
culture. There are already numerous habitats where
all of the inhabitants are sleeved in synthetic shells
and conventional life support exists only for the few
visitors wearing biomorphs.



HABITATS
With Earth now uninhabitable, transhumanity sur-
vives in a variety of off-world habitats. There are two
major types of these habitats: settlements on planets
or large moons, such as those on Luna, Mars, Venus,
Europa, or Titan, and space habitats that are built on
or near an asteroid or other useful source of raw ma-
terials. Most of these space habitats spin themselves
to provide gravity, with Earth and Mars gravity being
the two most common choices. There are also a large
number of zero-g or microgravity habitats, consisting
of either non-spinning habitats or stations built into
small asteroids or moons.

PLANETARY SETTLEMENTS
The Martian and Lunar city-states and other plan-
etary settlements contain environments most familiar
to refugees from Earth. This similarity is one reason
that two-thirds of all infomorph refugees live on
Mars, Luna, or Titan. The exact type of settlements
depends on the planet or moon on which they are
located, with some being far more similar to Earth
cities than others. Most Lunar settlements, like those
on Ganymede, Mercury, Titan, and Callisto, consist
of a network of subsurface tunnels and chambers ex-
cavated with plasma drills. These tunnel settlements
differ slightly from one world to the next. In most
of these tunnel cities, the floors of all open areas
and many dwellings are composed of genetically-
modified grass designed for both comfort and dura-
bility, with light panels covering the ceiling providing
bright full-spectrum lighting.
  A few of these buried cities further enhance their
natural appearance with the addition of trees and, in
some cases, specially engineered ecosystems, in both
public areas and private dwellings. A few of these
urban tunnel forests and jungles are home to numer-
ous flowering vines and bright tropical butterflies.
In a small number of settlements on both Titan and
Luna, colonies of small monkeys and parrots with
metabolisms and habits modified for modern ideas
of cleanliness and sanitation thrive, giving some of
these tunnel cities the feel of a buried jungle.
  All of the older or more prosperous tunnel cities
also contain large open areas that are typically be-
tween one and twenty hectares, with ceilings at least
ten meters high. Some are parks, others are public
