plazas, but all offer the residents of the tunnel cities
a chance to experience open spaces. Also, with the
exception of Mercury, all of these tunnel cities are on
moons where gravity is no more than one-sixth of a g.
Some of these open spaces are constructed with roofs
between thirty and one hundred meters high and are
designed so that residents can use them for flying by
strapping on a pair of specially-designed wings.
   The cloud cities of Venus are among the most un-
usual habitats in the solar system. Their exotic nature
is enhanced by the chance to observe the many re-
cently introduced floating and flying life forms modi-
fied to live in the clouds. Though located almost fifty
kilometers above the most deadly environment in the
solar system, life in these cloud cities is among the
most Earth-like anywhere in the solar system, with
gravity, temperatures, and atmospheric pressure all
being very near normal Earth levels.
   By contrast, the settlements on Mars look the most
like the cities of lost Earth, built on the surface rather
than underground or in the skies. Some of the more
recent settlements are designed for use by inhabitants
in ruster morphs or synthmorphs and feature no life
support. Older Martian cities and other settlements
are typically covered with low domes of flexible poly-
carbonate and filled with a completely breathable, if
somewhat low pressure, atmosphere. Some, however,
are collections of sealed skyscrapers, connected by
skywalks and tunnels. If current terraforming efforts
continue on schedule, the last sealed Martian cities
will be opened to a Martian atmosphere breathable
by all morphs within sixty years.
   The most unusual planetary settlements are the
ocean cities of Europa. These are among the most
exotic locations in the entire solar system and are
quite disorienting for individuals not used to un-
derwater cities. From a distance, most appear to be
complex Christmas tree ornaments hanging down one
hundred meters or more below the ice crust above. A
few are built deeper, plunging under the icy surface
near the various hydrothermal vents that host the
native Europan life clusters.
   Many of the residents of the Europan cities find
them familiar because they previously lived in one of
the underwater cities on Earth and so were used to
both the conditions and to living in an aquatic-adapt-
ed body. Europan cities all contain sealed buildings
with normal atmosphere, both because some activi-
ties work best in air instead of water and because the
cities often host visitors without gills. However, these
regions make up only ten percent or so of most of
these cities. The remainder looks vaguely similar to
many zero-g habitats, except that the structures are
considerably sturdier and are located underwater.
Buildings are designed to be accessible in all three di-
mensions, so going from one floor to another usually
involves swimming out a large opening in the wall
and down a level. In almost all of these aquatic cities,
large fusion generators heat the surrounding water, so
that the entire city exists in a region of water that is
far warmer than the surrounding frigid Europan sea.

SPACE HABITATS
With the exception of the private habitats of the
wealthy and powerful described below, the vast ma-
jority of space habitats hold between twenty-five hun-
dred and one million inhabitants. Almost two-thirds
of these habitats were built during the first seven years
after the Fall, when huge portions of the system's
surviving infrastructure were used to create habitats
suitable for hundreds of millions of infugees.
  During this era, several thousand torus habitats
and cluster colonies were created throughout the solar
system. Many of these habitats were created by auto-
mated mining machinery that had been repurposed
to create colonies. Due to the limitations of these au-
tomated mining rigs, most these habitats were small,
holding between one thousand and one hundred
thousand inhabitants. Twenty percent of the system's
inhabitants live in such habitats. During the past
decade, various small organizations, cults, and sub-
cultures have left the larger habitats they lived in and
created their own small habitats, few of which were
designed to hold more than ten thousand residents.
  The development of the new nanotech Hamilton
cylinders has lead to a new interest in large habi-
tats and in habitats that can easily expand in size
to accommodate an increasing population. The ex-
pense and difficulty involved in expanding existing
habitats or building new ones is one of the principle
reasons that more than forty million infomorph
refugees still do not posses morphs. Although none
of the existing Hamilton cylinders has finished grow-
ing, they are both highly regarded by their residents.
This same technology is also likely to produce a
low-cost method for creating small habitats, where
the creators merely need to seed an asteroid with the
appropriate advanced nanotech generators and wait
a few months.

SCUM BARGES
At the opposite extreme from the Hamilton cylinders
are the infamous scum barges. Most are spacecraft
built before or during the Fall that were used to
help with the early stages of the evacuation, ferrying
people away from the doomed Earth. Many of these
refugee ships were unable to find anywhere to unload
their human cargo, becoming a sort of permanent
traveling refugee camp, sometimes succumbing to
mutinies. They eventually joined up with pre-existing
scum ships and swarms, adopting their nomadic, free-
wheeling, anarchistic lifestyle. In contrast to egocast-
ing or the faster and more efficient fusion drive ships,
so-called scum barges offer a floating city alternative
to space travel. These ships function as roving black
markets and carnivals of the bizarre—lawless zones
where anyone can find whatever they want or need for
the right rep or price.
