  Most scum barges have fusion-powered plasma
drives and hold between two hundred and five
thousand inhabitants. The worst barges are excep-
tionally overcrowded, with aging life-support sys-
tems struggling to maintain a breathable (but still
foul-smelling) atmosphere under the strain of too
many passengers. The larger and more prosperous
scum barges are often fitted with various modern
conveniences, including large cornucopia machines
and vast stores of pirated manufacturing templates.
Some are thriving utopianist enclaves, while others
are mobile dens of smugglers and thieves that would
have been destroyed long ago except for the fact that
large and powerful organizations find their existence
occasionally useful. Living conditions on the scum
barges range from overcrowded refugee camps to
thriving, egalitarian, but non-wealthy anarchist
enclaves, to relatively modern habitats outfitted in
barbaric splendor by highly successful organized
crime gangs.

A DIVERSITY OF FLOATING WORLDS
The use of cornucopia machines and smart materials
means that the interiors of all but the poorest and
most destitute habitats can be reshaped according
to the whims of their inhabitants. When the number
of inhabitants is small enough or their aesthetics are
uniform enough to all share the same tastes, the re-
sults can be both unique and strange. Large-scale fads
occasionally sweep through even the largest and most
cosmopolitan habitats, making some of the bigger
colonies almost as odd.
   Several habitats closely resemble terrestrial jungles,
with an entire rainforest canopy growing from the
slowly rotating outer shell and all dwellings and
pieces of high technology nestled in the branches
or hollows of these vast gene-engineered trees. In
these living marvels, genetically engineered monkeys,
iguanas, and tree sloths wander amidst the inhab-
itants—some of these creatures are wild animals,
while others are controlled by AI servitors and act
as maintenance or observation drones. Some habi-
tats resemble other scenes from old Earth, including
more than a dozen water-filled habitats hosting some
of the aquatic inhabitants of the now-destroyed
underwater cities. In most of these marine habitats,
the actual buildings are either placed amidst a living
coral reef filled with fish and other creatures or are
actually built into the coral reef itself. There are
many other habitats duplicating other environments,
such as Afrique—a large Cole habitat with a popula-
tion of two hundred thousand, where the habitat is
made to resemble the African savanna. In Afrique,
the two ends of the habitat are shaped into snow-
capped mountains, and the inhabitants mostly live in
several large cities built in the savannah.
  While nostalgia for Earth is a powerful force in
habitat design, there are many other options. A few
exotic habitats resemble fantastic cities from various
vidgames or older forms of entertainment, including a
handful of small and eccentric habitats where the in-
habitants all appear as strange humanoid alien beings.
In many, the inhabitants have cosmetically modified
themselves to fit in with the setting.
   One of the most common differences between small
and large habitats is that the residents of smaller
stations often share a common ideology or sense of
aesthetics, and so are far more eccentric. Some of the
more unusual habitats range from dimly lit, spooky
landscapes filled with perpetually leafless trees, thick,
continually regenerating cobwebs, and other similar
macabre touches to gleaming colonies that are shining
citadels of quartz and steel. Some are huge intercon-
nected arcologies where any sort of personal privacy
is rare, while in others every family or even every
person has a separate dwelling that is rarely seen by
outsiders. Since the populations of these stations are
relatively small and the vast majority are not major
economic centers, travel to and from these smaller
habitats is infrequent, which further increases their
insularity and idiosyncrasies.

THE LARGEST HABITATS
Extropia, the huge Martian city-states, and some
of the largest Lunar stations hold between one mil-
lion and twenty million inhabitants. There are many
smaller settlements containing between one hundred
thousand and one million residents. These habitats
are considerably less idiosyncratic and exotic than the
smaller habitats. Almost all contain a cosmopolitan
and diverse population from a wide variety of sub-
cultures. Because of this diversity and the difficulty of
forming any sort of consensus with a large population,
these settlements tend to be reminiscent of the cities
of Earth. All of them have their own unique character
and feel, but the differences between one habitat and
another are rarely overwhelming. In addition, all of
these stations are large enough to hold offices for all
of the major hypercorps, who further promote uni-
formity by providing the same services from identical
hypercorp offices. Since most of these habitats are
major centers of commerce, travel between them is
frequent, so there are various facilities for travelers
such as hotels and sports clubs that help reduce the
disorientation of travel by offering identical experi-
ences, regardless of their location.

MICROGRAVITY HABITATS
Zero-g habitats are very different from those that
use rotational gravity. Most consist of networks of
tunnels drilled through the asteroids—similar to the
tunnel cities of Luna and Titan—but some are consid-
erably more exotic. Like most other habitats, almost
all microgravity colonies are built in, on, or next to
one or more asteroids containing a large amount of
useful raw materials. They typically feature a gravity
