less than 0.01 g that has very little effect on the daily
lives of the inhabitants. Near-weightless environments
allow for some interesting and unusual habitat designs
as there is no up or down, enabling the creation of
structures that would be too fragile even in low grav-
ity. The habitats of Nova York (p. 97) and Nguyen's
Compact (p. 103) are both examples of this, among
many others.

PRIVATE HABITATS
The most rare and exotic of all of the types of habitats
are the luxurious private ones owned by exceedingly
wealthy or high rep individuals. Most private habitats
are small but still give each of the residents several
thousand cubic meters of personal space.
  A typical private habitat is either a cylinder one
hundred fifty meters in diameter (the minimum nec-
essary to produce Mars gravity at a rate of rotation
slow enough to avoid problems in all morphs) and
between fifty and two hundred meters long, or a
zero-g sphere one hundred to two hundred meters
in diameter. These habitats are always tethered to
a small collection of raw materials, consisting of
chunks of silicate, nickel-iron, and water-containing
carboniferous asteroids with a mass equal to at
least that of the habitat. The majority of private
habitats are inhabited by between half a dozen and
three dozen morphs, some or most of which may
be AI servants or, on rare occasions, indentured
servants. Life in a private habitat is exceptionally
lavish. Almost every surface is made of formatible
smart materials and there are several large general-
purpose cornucopia machines available for the use
of every resident.
   By using these nanofabricators and the smart mate-
rials to their fullest, residents can completely change
the interior of the habitat in only a day or two—trans-
forming a sterile and crystalline array of shining metal
and glass buildings into a thriving forest, inhabited by
a variety of wild animals. The mesh is filled with vids
and XPs about the lives of the most famous residents
of the solar system. Almost everyone has seen the in-
terior of one of these vast space mansions many times,
though only a tiny percentage of the inhabitants of
the solar system will ever have a chance to actually
visit such a location. Many gatecrashers, scavengers
who travel to Earth, and others who engage in simi-
larly daring endeavors hope to be able to obtain infor-
mation or objects sufficiently valuable to allow them
to retire to their own private habitat.
