FACTIONS
One would have thought a cataclysmic event such
as the Fall would bring the surviving elements of
transhumanity closer together, jointly dedicating
themselves to the repopulation of the solar system
and continued prosperity. Instead, the remoteness and
physical isolation of transhuman colonies and habitats
stretched across the solar system, as well as the ef-
fects emerging technologies have had on transhuman
economies and social lives, have promoted the evolu-
tion of a wide spectrum of philosophies, agendas, and
political models.

THE HYPERCORPS
To some economists, the Fall and the numerous crises
that predated it on Earth can be viewed as an extinc-
tion event, the end of the line for the massive trans-
national megacorp dinosaurs, financial giants that
supported their monolithic frameworks on outdated
economic models and industrial technologies. The hy-
percorps are their evolutionary descendants: slimmer,
faster, meaner, and more flexible, eagerly embracing
the possibilities of new technologies and never afraid
to toss the old aside to take advantage of the new. It
was the hypercorps that drove humanity's expansion
into space and who continue to push the technological
envelope, guiding transhumanity towards new hori-
zons—always with profit as their driving goal.
   Most hypercorps are decentralized, non-asset-
based legal entities. Complete automation, advanced
robotics, morph technology, and cornucopia ma-
chines allow the hypercorps to abstain from mass
employment for labor or production services. The
need for physical labor has mostly been reduced
to tasks associated with habitat construction or
deep space mining. Infomorphs and AIs are heavily
employed (or more accurately, owned) as drone op-
erators or virtual workers, and many administrative
tasks are performed online via augmented reality,
virtual private networks, and simulspace nodes.
Some hypercorps are in fact entirely “virtual,” with
no physical assets and each employee acting as a
mobile office. A few major hypercorps literally con-
sist of only a dozen transhuman personnel. Though
some hypercorps are massive and diversified, most
specialize in particular fields or services. This results
in both an intricate system of partnerships to de-
velop, produce, and market products and services
and a large-scale tendency to internally contract
special services from other hypercorps. Many hy-
percorps also pool their resources and talent into
cooperative research initiatives, project centers, or
shared habitats.
   Most hypercorps are traditional capitalist in out-
look, though many have adopted alternative business
philosophies and management models. This might
include basing decisions on internal forecast market
trends, groupthink consensus models, or ditching
management entirely in favor of staff polling/voting
initiatives that statistically fare better. A few are anar-
cho-capitalist companies originating from Extropian
enclaves, though these often suffer from a bias when
making deals with inner system powers.
   The solar system boasts thousands of hypercorps;
a few of the more prominent and interesting are
noted below.

COGNITE
Major Industries: Cognitive Science, Mental Im-
plants, Psychosurgery, Nootropics
Major Stations: Thought (Venus orbit), Phobos
(Mars moon)
A pioneer in the field of cognitive science, Cognite
(pronounced cog-neet) drives forward the cutting
edge of research into understanding the transhuman
mind. Most well-known for their mental augmenta-
tions and the original menton morph design, Cognite
also specializes in psychosurgery and nootropics.
Their elitist and aloof image was not aided by their
scandalous involvement with the projects to raise ac-
celerated growth children that became known as the
Lost generation (p. 233), nor rumors that they engage
in research involving TITAN-influenced incapacitating
input attacks. Nevertheless they remain a key member
in the Planetary Consortium.



PSICLONE
                   To: Proxy-99
                   From: <Encrypted>
                      I'm enclosing some data I recently
                   acquired from an inside source regard-
                   ing a so-called “Project Psiclone”—
                   some type of black budget research
                   initiative pursued by Cognite, possibly
                   with involvement from other Planetary
                   Consortium interests. Their work seems
                   to focus strongly on the Watts-Macleod
                   strain of the Exsurgent virus—with
                   some alarming results.




COMET EXPRESS (COMEX)
Major Industries: Courier Services, Shipping,
Logistics
Major Stations: Nectar (Luna), Olympus (Mars)
Comet Express specializes in delivery services, inter-
stellar logistics, supply chains, and shipping. They
maintain a presence on almost every transhuman
habitat in the solar system, often via local subcontrac-
tors. Despite the wonders of nanofabrication, many
resources must still be imported. ComEx focuses on
managing supply and trade routes and making sure
physical shipments reach their destinations. For that
purpose, ComEx maintains orbital hubs equipped
with slingshot accelerators at strategic waypoints
