throughout the system and a fleet of cargo vessels
and courier drones. For reasons unknown to the
public, ComEx is viewed with hostility by the Jovian
Republic, who have standing orders to shoot down
ComEx vessels.

DIRECT ACTION
Major Industries: Security Services, Military
Contracting
Major Stations: Hexagon (Earth-Luna L5)
Descended from the remnants of several pre-Fall
national military forces and private military contrac-
tors, this hypercorp made a name for itself in the
period immediately following the Fall, where they
helped manage refugee populations among various
habitats and vessels while shattering any sign of
unrest immediately and with full force. Direct Action
today is known for its highly-efficient shock troops
and superior combat morphs, providing security and
public police services to self-governing habitats or
hypercorp installations. Shifting political alliances
between habitat clusters, corporate rivalry, and the
constant fear of TITAN agents cater to Direct Action's
paranoia-inducing marketing. The corporation main-
tains several habitats as physical training facilities and
armament depots.

ECOLOGENE
Major Industries: Environmental Systems, Genetics
Major Stations: McClintock (Mars orbit)
Ecologene specializes in living systems, environmental
genetics (with a specialty in insects), smart animals,
bio-architecture, and environmental nanotech. They
design and maintain the ecosystems inside numerous
habitats and tunnel colonies. One of Ecologene's no-
table projects is building and maintaining a massive
genetics archive of all life forms, though this endeavor
was nearly crippled by the Fall. For unknown reasons,
Ecologene seems to be favored by the Factors. Some
speculate that Ecologene has some sort of blackmail
material in hand, while others believe Ecologene is
trading away transhumanity's genetic secrets in ex-
change for a few xeno-tech gifts.

EXOTECH
Major Industries: Uploading, AIs, Electronics,
Software
Major Stations: Starwell (Main Belt)
Often regarded as the personal technocratic pulpit of
the infamous media mogul Morgan Sterling, Exotech
emerged from the Fall almost unscathed, any signifi-
cant losses absorbed by corporate assets in peripheral
market segments, while ruthlessly buying out troubled
competitors or think tanks unable to adapt to the
transitioning economy. Nowadays, Exotech remains a
predominant designer of high-end electronics, AIs, and
mesh presence software systems. ExoTech also contin-
ues to pursue an uncompromising progressive agenda
with its research in mind emulation, uploading, and
resleeving, as well as infomorph ego simulation.
Rumors persist that ExoTech continues to carry out
research and even production of AGIs.

EXPERIA
Major Industries: Media (AR, VR, XP), News,
Entertainment, Memetics
Major Stations: Elysium (Mars)
Living up to its name, Experia dominates the solar
system's news, media, and entertainment market
segments, generating controversy not only with its
publicly expressed pro-AI stance or inviting an AGI
to its board of directors, but also by proficient use of
hyperviral marketing and sophisticated XP-program-
ming. Another core segment is the production of edu-
cational XP and infomorph or AI tutors, some of the
latter regularly ascending to pop-culture icon status.
Experia is the Planetary Consortium's prime authority
on designing and deploying customized viral memes,
developed to counter anything posing a threat to the
Consortium's interests. The corp has automated nodes
and VR centers on many habitats throughout the solar
system, and it contracts thousands of freelance lifel-
oggers as live, roving, citizen journalistas. Claims by
some infomorphs that Experia has illegally subjected
indentured infomorphs to never-ending simulation
experiments for forecasting and intelligence analysis
purposes remain unsubstantiated.

FA JING
Major Industries: Mining, Energy, Biotech, Industrial
Manufacturing
Major Stations: New Dazhai (Mars)
The industrial giant Fa Jing is a powerhouse in the
mining and energy production markets and also
boasts a remarkable presence in the fields of biotech
and industrial equipment manufacturing. The former
megacorp has quickly adapted to the new economic
environments and reputation-based systems, thanks
partly to its dedication to network building and shar-
ing social responsibility, epitomized in concepts like
dàtóng and guanxi. Often considered insular and
close-minded, its internal communal and protective
mindset is a strong contrast to its manipulating and
monopolist business attitude. Fa Jing is engaged in
mining operations throughout the asteroid belt and
the Trojans and maintains significant corporate assets
on Mars.



WAR CRIMES
                  To: Meshleaks Newswire
                  From: <mesh ID does not exist>
                      You asked for it: verifiable evidence
                  proving Direct Action's war crimes
                  during the Fall <link failure>. Go ahead,
                  take it public. The Planetary Consortium
                  elites will find you, kill you, and erase
                  your backups. Go ahead. Test them.
