GATEKEEPER CORPORATION
Major Industries: Gatecrashing, Research, XP Media,
Exoplanet Colonization
Major Stations: Gateway (Pandora)
Initially born from the merger of several scientific
institutions and their corporate financiers, this hy-
percorp made a name for itself overnight when it
announced the successful decoding of the wormhole
gateway discovered on Saturn's moon Pandora. Under
the leadership of the eccentric but charismatic xeno-
archeologist Xander Rabin, the consortium funds
gatecrasher explorations through the Pandora gate,
paying a small share of the revenue to the explorers
but otherwise retaining all-encompassing rights on
any discoveries made—as well as the marketing and
distribution of the highly popular gatecrasher XP
recordings. Aside from scheduled explorations, the
consortium offers high-risk gatecrasher scouting and
discovery trips for the bold or desperate, selected
through a random lottery system.

GO-NIN GROUP
Major Industries: Banking, Agritech, Robotics, and
Services
Major Stations: Tsukomo (Luna)
Considered a relic of Earth's capitalist market
economy, the Go-nin Group is a traditional Japanese
keiretsu, a conglomerate of companies with interwo-
ven relationships and shareholdings, horizontally-
integrated across several industries (and sometimes
vertically-integrated within a business sector as well),
and centered around the long-lived Tamahashi en-
terprise consultancy firm. Tamahashi evolved from
an influential corporate lobby to a diversified bank
holding major equity in the group's partners; it now
controls the group's assets and directs the partnership's
overall business strategy. Through its member corps,
the Go-nin Group has a sizable presence throughout
the entire system and—without dominating a specific
industry—own significant market share in fields such
as banking, agritech, robotics, and services. Any dif-
ficulties in adapting to evolving economic models due
to its rigid structure are compensated by unscrupulous
exploitative behavior and a bottom-line attitude,
earning the group the reputation as the most ruthless
hypercorp of the inner system. Go-nin currently con-
trols a Pandora Gate on Eris (p. 109), secured by a
contingent of ultimate mercenaries.

GORGON DEFENSE SYSTEMS
Major Industries: Miltech, Security, Military
Contracting
Major Stations: Extropia
Gorgon is one of the most significant Extropian
success stories. Based out of the anarcho-capitalist
freehold, Gorgon has become a major name in the
design and manufacture of weapons, vehicles, sensors,
and other defense technologies. Their product range
includes personal weapon systems, spacecraft arma-
ments, and habitat defense systems. While prominent
 in the inner system, Gorgon is also one of the main
 arms suppliers to autonomist and brinker stations.
 Their subsidiary Medusan Shield offers private secu-
 rity services in direct competition to Direct Action.
 While DirAct is known for its expertly trained sol-
 diers, Medusan Shield is known for their elite cadre
 of highly trained and aesthetically enhanced female
 combat morphs. It is suspected that several promi-
 nent assassinations have been the work of agents
 contracted through Medusan Shield.

 NIMBUS
 Major Industries: Electronics, Mesh Systems,
 Farcasting, Communications
 Major Stations: Octavia (Venus)
 Nimbus produces key components for mesh infra-
 structure, from spime microradio and sensor sys-
 tems to ectos, servers, and laser links. Nimbus also
 dominates the network of farcaster links throughout
 the system, due to several breakthroughs in this tech-
 nology (some claim that Nimbus purchased these
 advances from the Factors). Rumors that Nimbus
 controls a secret Pandora Gate or that they engage
 in illicit ego-smuggling (or even that they are secretly
 transferring stolen egos to experimental exoplanet
 colonies) regularly circulate through the mesh, but
 remain unconfirmed.

 OMNICOR
 Major Industries: Nanofabrication, Chemicals,
 Energy, Anti-Matter
 Major Stations: Monolith-3 (Mercury), Feynman (Luna)
 A descendant of the pre-Fall megacorporate giant
 Monolith Industries, Omnicor specializes in the fields
 of nanotech design and fabrication, chemical refining,
 alternative fuel, and antimatter research. Omnicor man-
 aged to secure research-oriented key assets from its twin
 rival Starware in a violent conflict during the Fall, lead-
 ing to an ongoing enmity that might be better termed


UNION BUSTING
                 To: OmniSec Alpha
                 From: OmniSec 837302
                    Surveillance has confirmed it. The bio-sleeved
                 workers at our secure Didenko facility are indeed
                 communicating with outside autonomist interests
                 and discussing militant free union organizing
                 tactics and even a wildcat strike. Their primary
                 complaints concern the 30-hour workdays and
                 mandatory drug regimens enforced to keep the
                 staff at our required levels of productivity. We rec-
                 ommend the immediate insertion of a counterin-
                 surgency squad and implementation of standard
                 union-busting protocols, including but not limited
                 to loyalty testing, chemical pacification, tactical
                 psychosurgery, selective excision of leadership
                 nodes, memetic counterstrikes, and replacing the
                 workforce with modified backups. The entire op-
                 eration will take place using a purported mission
                 to root out a Starware infiltration as cover.
