a corporate war. Despite its progressive technological
outlook, Omnicor retains a conservative corporate
structure with strict internal regulations and controls
as a defense against Starware's repeated infiltration and
sabotage attempts. Among the hypercorp's major assets
are an antimatter research facility orbiting Mercury.

PATHFINDER
Major Industries: Exoplanet Colonization, Mining,
Research
Major Stations: Ma'adim Vallis (Mars)
Pathfinder is one of the first hypercorps to dive into
galactic expansion, claiming new territories beyond
the Pandora gates and establishing numerous colonies.
Taking advantage of desperate infugees and gatecrash-
ers, Pathfinder offers transportation to an exoplanet
and a new morph in exchange for indentured labor.
The corp has established several off-world mining and
resource exploitation projects, much to the chagrin of
preservationists. Though Pathfinder has but a small
presence in the solar system, it is a frequent target of
eco-terrorist attacks.

PROSPERITY GROUP
Major Industries: Agriculture, Aquaculture,
Pharmaceuticals
Major Stations: Ceres, Lu Xing (Mars)
The Prosperity Group ascended into the hypercorp
ranks before the Fall, meeting the high demand
many new stations had for microgravity agritech,
aquaculture, hydroponics, and other sources of food.
Expanding into pharmaceuticals as well, Prosperity is
considered the lead supplier for the poor man's food
and drugs. Their cultured faux-meats and protein-
enriched nutrition additives are in high demand. This
corp earned some sympathy when it lost an entire
habitat to some sort of resurgent TITAN outbreak a
few years after the Fall, though some have suggested
this was just a cover story to hide an unfortunate
accident resulting from experimental drug testing on
an unwitting populace.

SKINAETHESIA
Major Industries: Genetics, Cloning, Biotech
Major Stations: Ptah (Mars)
As the leading designer of biomorphs, Skinaethesia
enjoys system wide popularity and respect for its so-
phisticated products, especially high-end customized
models. Best known for its breakthroughs in genetic
engineering and enhancements, the hypercorp's in-
terest in sophisticated combat morphs or stylized
pleasure pods are lesser known facts and often sold
through a network of seemingly unaffiliated shell cor-
porations or local distributors. Skinaesthesia focuses
on emphasizing environmental adaptations and useful
cybernetic enhancements, increasing transhumanity's
chances for survival and further prosperity. Experi-
mental morphs are sometimes offered to desperate
infugees for field testing.
SKINTHETIC
Major Industries: Genetics, Cloning, Biotech
Major Stations: Extropia
Skinthetic is also a lead designer of morphs, but with
a much sleazier reputation and not just because of
their anarcho-capitalist roots. Specializing in exten-
sive and often radical bio-modifications, the hyper-
corp pushes the envelope in exotic pod and biomorph
designs under the mantle of morphological freedom.
Bioconservatives have condemned the corporation's
business practices and ethics and have even leveled
accusations that Skinthetic is experimenting with
xenogenetic materials acquired from the Factors.
Skinthetic's cavalier attitude actually makes them
popular in many parts of the outer system, and they
are know as the biotech corp to go to if you want
something weird.

SOLARIS
Major Industries: Banking, Insurance, Investments,
Futures Markets, Info Brokerage
Major Stations: None
Solaris is the solar system's leading banking and fi-
nancial investment hypercorp, dealing in insurances,
info-brokerage, and high-risk investments on cultural
and social experimental speculation. A member of the
Planetary Consortium, Solaris advises many habitats
on regulating their transitional economies. Solaris has
no offices or physical assets; each banker is a mobile
virtual office. Solaris is rumored to maintain a secret
base where the corporation runs simulations on the
development of the entire solar system's macro-econ-
omy, constantly adjusting its own strategies based
on the dynamics of this big blueprint. Fueling these
rumors, Solaris is known to hire “independent consul-
tants” to tip the balance in politically or economically
profitable high-risk investments.

SOMATEK
Major Industries: Uplifts, Pharming, Pharmaceuti-
cals, Genetics
Major Stations: Clever Hands (Luna)
Somatek is a leader in the art and science of uplift-
ing animal species, pioneering several major brea
throughs in cognitive enhancement and genetic
modification. The hypercorp also engages in extensive
animal pharming—producing and extracting phar-
maceuticals from transgenic critters—and markets
numerous products and services related to smart ani-
mals and chimerical creatures. Despite the educational
and training programs it offers to uplifts and the fact
that much of its workforce consists of uplifts, Somatek
is controversial among mercurials who disapprove of
their methods (which often involve strict controls on
uplift reproduction), the lack of input uplifts are given
in their modifications and development, and the focus
on anthropocentric mind-sets “enforced” on uplifts.)
