OLARCHIVE SEARCH: ZBRNY LIMITED + CONSP

           ZBRNYsecretive Zbrnyconspiracythe center
             The
                  LIMITED Group is theories
             of many recurring + CONSPIRACY
                                                         claimed
                                                         TITANs o
               and horror tales. Though varying in       dicate CE
               detail and plausibility, most rumors      to. Barel
               claim that an outside attack on the       failures, Z
               former Eastern European hypercorp's       non-affec
               asteroid mining and processing stations   the perso
               caused a major blackout and complete      ferred to
               shut-down of life support systems over    then, no o
               an extended period of time. Depend-       with any
               ing on the source, the attack itself is   hypercorp




 STARWARE
 Major Industries: Robotics, Aerospace Engineering,
 Habitat Construction
 Major Stations: Korolev Shipyards (Luna), Vesta
 (Belt)
 Another remnant of the pre-Fall megacorp Monolith
 Industries (like Omnicor), Starware is a leading manu-
 facturer of robotics, spacecraft fusion drives, satellites,
 and entire pre-fab habitats. Despite its financial suc-
 cess and resources, Starware's ongoing blood feud
 with Omnicor denies both corporations full member-
 ship privileges on the Planetary Consortium. Starware
 makes heavy use of AI workers in robotic shells,
 having suffered a few too many labor disputes with
 disgruntled Lunar workers. In fact Starware grows in-
 creasingly unpopular with its Lunar neighbors, and has
 been forced to bring in extra security due to frequent
 sabotage attempts. Recent negotiations with the Fac-
 tors have spurred theories that Starware might be ac-
 quiring Factor aid for building a lighthugger starship.

 STELLAR INTELLIGENCE
 Major Industries: Intelligence, Data Mining, Info
 Brokerage, Espionage
 Major Stations: Memory Hole Torus (Martian
 Trojans)
 Born from the ashes of the UN-governed Terran Intel-
 ligence Cooperative (TIC), its surviving personnel and
 assets were collectively uploaded during the Fall and
 quickly regrouped under the name Stellar Intelligence.
 Emerging as a virtual collective, most of Stellar's em-
 ployees remain loyal to the corporation and its direc-
 tor, the reclusive infomorph known as Syme. Stellar
 offers an impressive array of intelligence services,
 including data mining, analyst think tanks, retro-
 quantification (bringing old secrets/data to light),
 memetic mapping, and more. Its services also extend
 to surveillance, data theft, espionage, media manipu-
 lation, and infiltration. The hypercorp's specialty is
 pre-empting civil insurgencies and preventing political
 memes and movements from destabilizing a habitat's
 or sector's regime. Criticized by civil rights movements
 CY
ave been caused by the        are conducted exclusively via a spokes-
 owerful underworld syn-      person AGI. To this day, Zbrny drones
ystof Zbrny was indebted      continue to mine asteroids for minerals
knowledging the system        and ores, supplying the company's pro-
  headquarters ordered all    cessing stations. According to rumors,
 tations to be abandoned,     an attempt by brinker pirates to board
  either laid off or trans-   a Zrbny outpost resulted in the sta-
  affected stations. Since    tion's self-destruction. The company's
 as seen or communicated      AI-piloted massive bulk freighters are
 loyees of the mysterious     notoriously non-responsive, earning
egotiations with outsiders    them the nickname “zombie ships.”




    and especially anarchists, Stellar is known to embed
    programmed infomorph agents into the local popu-
    lation of any oppressive regime that will pay their
    price. While many view Stellar as the brainwashing
    and secret police arm of the Planetary Consortium,
    the hypercorp offers its services to almost any other
    faction or individual.

    TERRAGENESIS
    Major Industries: Terraforming, Ecosystem Manage-
    ment, Environmental Data
    Major Stations: Caldwell (Vulcanoids), Ashoka
    (Mars), Elegua (Earth orbit)
    Built from the remains of several pre-Fall South Afri-
    can and Southeast Asian corporations who engaged
    in geo-engineering projects and sought to relieve
    Earth's ecological crises, TerraGenesis's expertise is in
    developing sustainable biospheres and eco-systems via
    aggressive industrialized terraforming. TerraGenesis
    is different in that it is a worker-owned cooperative,
    with workplace councils in local offices and an elected
    cooperative congress handling management. It main-
    tains several habitats on Mars and a small number of
    research stations in orbit around Earth, collecting data
    for simulations of Earth revitalization projects. The
    latter initiative is strongly supported—and possibly
    financed—by prominent reclaimers. TerraGenesis's
    work on Mars, however, is often targeted by preser-
    vationist saboteurs. Thanks to their possession of the
    Vulcanoid Pandora Gate (p. 88), the cooperative has a
    growing presence on various exoplanets that are ripe
    for terraforming or geoengineering.

    POLITICAL BLOCS
    Transhumanity's social, cultural, and ideological
    diversity, combined with its scattered and isolated
    presence in habitat clusters throughout the solar
    system, gives rise to a wide range of political memes
    and factions advocating equally diverse organizational
    models. Many of these have banded together into
    larger political entities to further mutual goals and act
    in cooperative self-interest.
