JOVIAN REPUBLIC
Memes: Bioconservatism, Fascism, Security
Main Stations: Liberty (Ganymede)
Exploiting the chaos of the Fall, a group of stations
and habitats were seized in a military coup and the
Jovian Republic was born. Combining terrestrial
South American dictatorship with U.S. American po-
litical lobbyism, this regime quickly brought the entire
Jovian military-industrial complex under its control.
   Widely referred to as the
Jovian Junta by the rest of the
outer system, the Repub-
lic's authorities hold a
strict bioconservative
stance against many
transhuman scientific
and technological devel-
opments. Exploiting fears
engendered by the Fall, the Re-
public restricts access to sophisti-
cated technologies such as nanofabrication, cloning,
forking, and even uploading, and is one of the few
old economies left in the system. Public communica-
tion channels are subjected to extensive censorship
and travel privileges are extremely limited. Both
uplifts and AGIs are strictly forbidden and treated
as property without civil rights. Diplomatic relations
to progressive factions remain cold; heavily-modified
transhuman emissaries or visitors are viewed with
suspicion at best, or simply denied access. Despite
continuous reports of heinous acts of government
oppression, the Republic's intimidating military assets
keep any other factions from intervening.

LUNAR-LAGRANGE ALLIANCE
Memes: Reclaiming Earth
Main Stations: Erato (Luna), Remembrance (Earth
orbit)
This small cluster of habitats stationed around Earth's
Lagrange points and on or in orbit around Luna
formed an alliance of necessity, rather than joint
political or social agendas or cultural roots. In fact,
individual stations are quite diverse and sometimes
polarized, as many of them cling to old Earth cultural
and national identities. Due to their relative proxim-
ity, members share basic resources and services and
have signed mutual assistance agreements in case of
an emergency.
   Before the Fall, many of these habitats were
considered some of the most
infl uential off-Earth bases.
Since the Fall and the
subsequent rise of
the Planetary Con-
sortium, however,
the Lunar-Lagrange
Alliance has become
a second-rate dimin-
ished power, and is
 often viewed as conservative, old-fashioned, and
 too caught up in romanticizing the past. Lunar-
 Lagrange Alliance stations maintain simmering
 tensions and an ongoing rivalry with the Planetary
 Consortium, particularly those PC colonies on/over
 Luna and the Lagrange points. One main source of
 contention is the quarantine of Earth, as the Lunar-
 Lagrange Alliance is a stronghold for the reclaimer
 movement. The Lunar-Lagrange Alliance does,
 however, benefit from hypercorp support of its own,
 particularly the Go-nin Group, Starware, and the
 influential Lunar banking consortiums.
    In addition to scientific research stations, mineral
 processing and refinery stations make up the major-
 ity of the Alliance's habitats, dependent on the Lunar
 mining and water extraction industries. These stations
 took the brunt of the refugee influx during the Fall.
 Many remain overcrowded with strained resources,
 large masses of impoverished workers, and thriving
 criminal syndicates.

 MORNINGSTAR CONSTELLATION
 Memes: Venusian Sovereignty
 Main Stations: Octavia
 The system's newest political bloc, the Morningstar
 Constellation is an alliance of aerostat
 habitats floating in Venus's upper atmo-
 sphere. Formed after a recent
 series of joint vetoes from the
 major aerostats against hyper-
 corp governance initiatives
 intended to limit aerostat
 self-governance, the Con-
 stellation's joint political
 statement and agenda are still
 being discussed. While the
 Planetary Consortium views


INNER SYSTEM POLITICS
                [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
                [Public Key Decryption Complete]
                   It's easy for Firewall agents to get
                caught between the agendas and maneu-
                vers of rival factions. The Lunar-Lagrange
                Alliance resembles the power of old, a
                shadow of transhumanity's former glory.
                On and above Mars—transhumanity's new
                home world—the Planetary Consortium is
                the dominant usurper, the hypercorps ruling
                from behind the curtain while portraying
                themselves as the only bulwark between
                transhumanity and the dark between the
                stars. The Morningstar Constellation has
                the potential to become the new and future
                power bloc, but only if they get their act
                together before the Planetary Constellation
                starts sending Stellar Intelligence agents to
                destabilize them.
