the formation of this new power bloc with bemused
resentment, the Barsoomians on Mars and the outer
system autonomists view the Venusians as free-think-
ing reformists rather than anti-hypercorp radicals. The
population reportedly enjoys great liberties in morph
and enhancement technologies together with freedom
of expression of social and political ideas. The popu-
lation of Octavia has emerged as the Constellation's
designated voice.

PLANETARY CONSORTIUM
Hypercorp Council Members: Cognite, Direct
Action, Experia, Fa Jing, Olympus Infrastructure
Authority, Pathfinder, Prosperity Group, Solaris,
Stellar Intelligence, plus a dozen others
Memes: Cyberdemocracy, Hypercapitalism, Eugenics,
Security, Expansion
Main Stations: Progress (Mars orbit)
Evolved from an alliance of hypercorporate interests
into transhumanity's most powerful body politic, the
Planetary Consortium today controls several habitat
clusters throughout the inner system, primarily in and
around Mars, Luna, and Earth orbit. The impressive
space station Progress is the official seat of govern-
ment and has become the symbol of the Consortium's
influence and power, even though few congress or
council meets take place in the flesh.
   The Consortium applies basic democratic principles
supported by a real time voting system for all reg-
istered citizens. The congress and executive bodies
feature a rotating cast of hyperelite politicos, geron-
tocrats, socialites, and even media icons. It's a known
fact that despite this political façade of a democratic
republic, the members of the hypercorporate council
are the true powers behind the Consortium. These
hypercorps are major proponents of the transitional
economy, the interdiction of Earth, and expansion
beyond the gates.
   Aside from economic interests, the Consortium
advocates the imperative of eugenics as social re-
sponsibility and for transhumanity to reclaim its
former strength and prosperity—a campaign some-
times accused of euphemizing discrimination against
unmodified humans, indentured infomorphs, and the
clanking masses.
THARSIS LEAGUE
League Members: Ashoka, Elysium, Noctis-Quinjiao,
Olympus, Valles-New Shanghai, plus over a dozen
others.
Memes: Martian Nationalism
A loose coalition of the planet's major independent
settlements, elected members form a committee rep-
resenting the population in matters concerning or
affecting the majority of its habitats and settlements.
Prominent debates revolve around the scientific ap-
proach of the ongoing terraforming process as well
as trade and taxation restrictions initiated by the
Planetary Consortium and its member hypercorps.
The League's committee is rarely united in its agenda
and opinion, and tensions are increasingly on the rise.
The cities with strong hypercorp ties are accused of
dominating council affairs, manipulating matters
behind the scenes, failing to do anything about the
TITAN Quarantine Zone (p. 94), and selling out
Martian interests to the hypercorps and the Planetary
Consortium (of which many are also part). In re-
sponse, the non-Consortium cities are condemned for
advocating anti-hypercorp initiatives, passively block-
ing terraforming measures, and for maintaining ties to
the Barsoomians—the Martian underclass resistance
living in the desolate and unstable outskirts.

AUTONOMIST ALLIANCE
The outer system presented an opportunity for people
who wanted to set up a way of doing things that was
drastically different from the authoritarian politics
and sham democracies of Earth and the inner system.
Far from the reach of governments and hypercorps,
this frontier was populated by political radicals, social
                    dropouts, and people who just
                     wanted to experiment or do their
                      own thing. These initial habitats
                        drew the interests of insurgents
