          SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: CARNIVAL OF T

                          CARNIVALthe stationary scum s
                           Aside from
                           Fresh Kills, nearTHE GOAT La
                                        OF Earth's L5
                           point, the most notorious scum
                           may well be the Carnival of the
                           a combination artist colony and
                           unfathomable hedonism, dedica
                           exploring chaos, creativity, self-dis
                           and coupling in every conceiva
                           eration. Residents are known fo
                           consistent and rapid morpho
                           changes, including regular resl




likely to draw a response from locals or even the
entire populace, with disputes handled through ad
hoc community conflict resolution. The mesh and var-
ious networking tools are used extensively to strive
for group consensus decision-making in real-time. AIs
and robots are relied on for most mundane and de-
meaning tasks. Various self-organized collectives, syn-
dicates, worker's councils, and affinity groups, often
with rotating membership, take on different tasks and
services that are important to a habitat's community,
including everything from communications and space
traffic control to backup and resleeving services. Par-
ticipatory militias organize collective defense against
external threats.
   Among the anarchist stations there are many varia-
tions and permutations on how things are organized,
as everything is fine-tuned at the local level by whom-
ever is involved. Larger decentralized confederations
handle inter-habitat affairs and resource-sharing, even
trading with the hypercorps. Though a hypercorp
presence is allowed on some habitats, they are treated
just like everyone else.

EXTROPIANS
Memes: Anarcho-capitalism, Mutualism,
Self-Ownership
Main Stations: Extropia (Main Belt)
Though a smaller tendency, the Extropians are no-
table because they ride a line between inner and outer
system ideologies. Extropians believe in an economic
free market with the absence of a binding legal system,
so that all relations and transactions are based on in-
dividual contracts agreed on by all parties involved or
affected. Contrary to the anarchists, the Extropians
very much support private property and personal
economic wealth; Extropian-owned corporations
actively participate in the solar system's hypercorp
economy. Many of these corporations are worker-
owned cooperatives, with workplace councils in local
offices and an elected cooperative congress handling
 GOAT
on,      The biosculptors on the Carnival are said
 ge      to be some of the best in the system. Ac-
 ge      cording to rumors, residents sometimes
at,      experiment with multiple simultaneous
 of      sleeving, persona-mingling, and other
 to      mentally dangerous activities. Led by a
 ry,     rotating residents' council, the Carnival
 it-     prides itself on being a bleeding-edge
eir      social experiment, and maintains top-of-
cal      the-line facilities for morph customiza-
ng.      tion, resleeving, and psychosurgery.




       management. This puts the Extropians in a remark-
       able position where they interact heavily with both the
       hypercorps and autonomists but are not fully trusted
       by either.
          In Extropian society, law and security, like every-
       thing else, are contracted services. When entering an
       Extropian habitat, you purchase defense insurance
       from a local contractor such as Gorgon Defense
       Systems, who maintains automated drones and
       freelancers throughout the station who can come
       to your aid if threatened. Likewise, the only law
       that exists is what's put into writing between two
       contracted parties. In case of disputes, both parties
       resort to a pre-agreed legal contractor to settle the
       matter. Some Extropian colonies utilize AGIs for fa-
       cilitating contracts and legal matters, such as Nomic
       on Extropia.

       SCUM
       Memes: Individualist Anarchism, Morphological
       Freedom
       Scum are nomadic space gypsies, travelling from sta-
       tion to station in heavily modified barges or swarms
       of smaller space vessels, mostly former colonial ships.
       The term “scum” has been gleefully appropriated from
       its original derogatory usage. Despite their reputation
       as criminals and scam artists, their temporary presence
       is often tolerated in many habitats for the entertain-
       ment they bring in the way of exotic performances
       and storytelling, both of which offer change and relief
       from the isolation of remote habitats and clusters.
       Their thriving black markets are an open secret but
       shut down only in the most oppressive regimes, as
       citizens returning with illegal goods must pass their
       station's security anyway.
          The scum themselves comes from all manner of
       backgrounds. They are rejects, anarchists, criminals,
       societal dropouts, wanderers, artists, eccentrics,
       and more. As a culture, however, they embrace ex-
       perimentation and an “everything is permissible”
