attitude. Many are ardent practitioners of extreme
transhuman modifications. Long-time scum are
sometimes scarcely recognizable as having once been
human. Scum economies are transitional rather than
new, due to their constant interaction with other
habitats, though among long-term residents an un-
derground new economy often flourishes.

TITANIAN COMMONWEALTH
Main Stations: Titan
Memes: Technosocialism, Cyberdemocracy
Titan was originally settled in the late 21st century
by a European academic consortium, making it the
only major body in the system colonized primar-
ily by non-hypercorp interests. The social organiza-
tion of Titan is rooted partly in the Scandinavian
social democracies of Earth and partly in the open
economy. On one hand, citizens of the Titanian Com-
monwealth eschew the use of currency for mundane
needs, participating in the reputation economy used
by much of the outer system. On the other, upon
reaching the age of majority, citizens of Titan agree
to a literal social contract. A portion of their eco-
nomic productivity is quantized as social money,
which is then tithed to microcorp-administered social
projects such as gateless interstellar exploration,
physics research, neuroscience, developing mental
health memes, defense, public resleeving, and habitat
construction. The monetary unit used for this pur-
pose, the Titanian Kroner, is currently pegged to the
common market price of a terabyte of qubits.
   Unlike old Earth socialist regimes, there are no state
monopolies and no central planning. Anyone able to
garner enough votes in the Plurality (the Titanian
cyberdemocracy) can start a social money-funded
microcorp and compete with other microcorps.
Microcorps are owned by the Commonwealth, and
profits are disposed of by the Plurality. Microcorps
are required to be transparent as administrative en-
tities, and the Plurality votes on whether to transfer
discoveries to the open source domain. Regulatory
matters are handled by AI and AGI bureaucrats (red
tape still exists, but it doesn't slow things down …
much). The main reward for individuals in this system
is rep. Titanians who invest a lot of time or resources
in a given field gain rep rewards for doing so.
SOCIO-POLITICAL MOVEMENTS
Aside from sectarian political factions, a number of
socio-political movements are widespread throughout
the solar system.

ARGONAUTS
Memes: Open Source Society, Information Freedom,
Social Responsibility, Techno-Progressivism
Main Stations: Mitre Station (Lunar Orbit), Markov
(Kuiper Belt), Hooverman-Geischecker (Sun)
The group calling themselves argonauts is a public
organization advocating the socially responsible use
of technology. The group chose its name from the
pre-Fall Jasons, an advisory group that consulted
for the US government on matters of scientific and
technological progress and its possible dangers. The
argonauts likewise offer consultation services to
political and economic powers throughout the solar
system, but strictly refuse to be drawn into the solar
system's political affairs in any way. Despite a pre-Fall
break with many hypercorps before the Fall, which in
some cases included expropriating corporate data and
resources, the argonauts re-earned favor by providing
their expertise in combating the TITANs to all during
the Fall.
   The argonauts are strong proponents of the open
source movement, advocating open access to technol-
ogy and information. In their view, providing equal
access to transhumanity's knowledge and achieve-
ments will further transhuman growth and security,
so that all of transhumanity is more prepared for
future threats and challenges. Thus the argonauts
often insist that payment for their services come in
the way of releasing otherwise unobtainable informa-
tion—hypercorp proprietary secrets, research data,
nanofab blueprints, hidden pre-Fall archives, etc.—to
the public mesh. The argonauts maintain several open
databases and archives for this specific purpose.
   While primarily an open organization, the argo-
nauts are rumored to ultimately report to an elite
inner circle. Supporting this theory is the existence
of the medeans, the organization's clandestine para-
military wing, performing bodyguard services to high
level argonauts and protecting the group's assets.

BARSOOMIANS
Memes: Anti-Slavery, Martian Independence,
Martian Nationalism, Terraforming Control
Main Stations: Ashoka (Mars)
The Barsoomians (taking their name from some old
Earth pulp adventure novels) are a broad movement
comprised of the Martian underclass. Harboring a
growing resentment over the hypercorp domination
of Mars, Barsoomians advocate for a more egalitar-
ian social structure. Heavily influenced by autonomist
currents, the Barsoomians demand local control
of terraforming projects, an end to the widespread
practiced of indentured servitude, and control of the
