Martian Gate. The majority of Barsoomians are or
were indentured infugees, though a significant amount
were also original Martian colonists/indentures whose
habitats do not share the economic prosperity of the
favored hypercorp cities. Many Barsoomians occupy
rusters or synthetic morphs and actually prefer to
live a nomadic lifestyle in the Martian wilds. A few
radicals have taken up arms and engaged in violent
strikes against hypercorp holdings, which are typically
followed by reprisal raids to decapitate the Barsoom-
ian leadership, thus breeding further hostilities.

BIOCONSERVATIVES
Memes: Bioconservatism, Primitivism, Natural Order
Main Stations: Vo Nguyen (Earth orbit)
Bioconservatives are strongly suspicious and critical
of the transhuman direction the human race is taking.
They are strong proponents of limiting technological
development due to the threat it manifests to existing
social orders. Bioconservative positions range from
right-wing cultural conservatives to left-wing environ-
mentalists. Though its prominence is shrinking, bio-
conservatism has a strong base among some religious
groups, the Jovian Republic, and certain extremists.
   Bioconservatives are opposed to nanofabrication,
genetic modification, cloning, cognitive modifications,
artificial intelligence, uplifting, and forking, among
other technologies. Some are even opposed to back-
ups, uploading, and resleeving, dismissing them as un-
natural, an affront to god's will, or a technology that
transhumanity is not yet mature enough to handle.
They oppose expansion beyond the Pandora Gates on
the grounds that transhumanity is not ready to deal
with what they might encounter. Most bioconserva-
tives support the old economy.
   The bioconservatives gained many converts and
much ground after the Fall, a cataclysmic event
that served as a direct example of the dangers they
warned against. Still, the appeal of technology and
the numerous advantages it provides work against
them. As a result, some disgruntled biocons have
turned to sabotage and acts of terrorism in support
of their ideology.

BRINKERS
Memes: Isolationism
The vast reach of the solar system enables groups
with their own particular ideology or agenda to es-
tablish their own isolated society far from the rest
of transhumanity. Commonly referred to as brinkers,
these habitats extend the gamut of the imagination.
Social or political experiments, gender-based societ-
ies (or lack thereof), political extremists, religious
groups, exiles, secret criminal/hypercorp operations,
extended families, cults, or simply people who prefer
to live in the system's backwater areas—all are pos-
sible. Many of these are self-isolated and will refuse
to interact with outsiders, while others are happy to
have occasional visitors.
NEO-PRIMITIVISTS
               [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
               [Public Key Decryption Complete]
                   Neo-primitivists are a potential threat that
               all Firewall sentinels should keep an eye on.
               Their neo-luddite philosophy advocates the
               abolition of technological society and a return
               to a wild and free hunter-gatherer lifestyle,
               free from technological control or oppression.
               Considered an extremist element of both the
               bioconservative and reclaimer movements,
               neo-primitivists are known to engage in acts
               of sabotage against transhuman society.
               Though some neo-primitivists have made cer-
               tain concessions to their ideology, taking on
               ruster morphs and pursuing an independent
               lifestyle in the wilds of Mars, most hope to
               return to Earth and re-establish a non-tech-
               nology-based society there. A few advocate
               finding a new, unspoiled world beyond the
               Pandora Gates and founding a primitivist
               society there.




 EXHUMANS
 Memes: Adaptability, Hyper-Evolution, Singularity
 Main Stations: Unknown
 More than any other faction, exhumans seek to take
 the capabilities of self-modification to the absolute
 limit and become posthuman. Typical exhumans see
 the Fall as either a missed evolutionary opportunity
 and/or as an example of transhumanity's inferiority
 and unworthiness. Though specific ideologies differ
 between exhuman packs, as a whole they seek to self-
 evolve to a more advanced state of being. To some,
 this means genetically transforming themselves into a
 top-of-the-food-chain, super-smart, survive-anywhere
 predator that can out-compete all other life forms
 for dominance. To others, it means bootstrapping
 their intelligence to the levels of the TITANs through



 SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: OUT'STERS
                OUT'STERS their than a common social
                 Linked only by
                 Oort Cloud rather
                                   remote locations in the

                  construct or political system, the out'sters
                  are a loose association of habitats, clusters,
                  and swarms. Little is known about them, as
                  they avoid communication and interaction
                  even with the handful of scientific outposts
                  and research stations in the Oort Cloud. The
                  remoteness of their location and their self-
                  imposed isolationist behavior fuels para-
                  noid rumors regarding the group's purpose
                  and agenda.
