extensive genetic modifications and pharmaceutical
treatments or going infomorph and modifying their
programming. A few are singularity seekers, hoping
to find some TITAN relic that will allow them to tran-
scend their current transhuman limitations, or even
to find the TITANs themselves and be absorbed into
their super-consciousness.
   Exhumans are universally mistrusted by many, and
for good reason. Typical exhumans engage in modi-
fications that are extreme and untested, sometimes
fringe science at best, often resulting in horrible fail-
ures and disfigurement, but more commonly driving
the subject insane—or into a completely alien or feral
mindset. Though individual exhumans pursue their
own paths, they are known to band together in the
Kuiper Belt and other remote areas. Several packs
of exhumans have taken their loathing for inferior
transhumanity to an extreme, declaring war on their
former species and launching brutal raids and pirate
attacks on isolated outposts.

MERCURIALS
Memes: Species Autonomy, Uplift Rights
Main Stations: Glitch (Neptune), Hidden Sea (Ceres),
Mahogany (Uranus)
The term mercurial has become a common term for
the non-human part of the transhuman family—up-
lifts and AGIs—reflecting their changing nature. In
particular, the term mercurial has been adopted by
uplifts and AGIs with a specific agenda to delineate
mercurial culture and interests from human ones.
Though the particular issues faced by uplifts and
AGIs differ, they have some similarities, and so they
are often lumped together. Notably, both portions of
the movement have human supporters as well.
   Uplifts: The most common issue addressed by uplifts
is the issue of civil rights and autonomy. Many uplifts
decry the second-class status they are given (in some
cases even treated as pets or property rather than full
citizens); in particular, the breeding restrictions and
forced servitude many uplifts are saddled with by the
hypercorps that create them. Some activists advocate
that uplifts should be in control of their own genetic fu-
tures, rather than suffering the manipulation of human
scientists. At the radical end of the spectrum, certain



SYBILS

                [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
                [Public Key Decryption Complete]
                We've verified that the warning issued before
                incident did indeed originate from a sybil atta
                the rep network sources were forged identities.
                number of incidents we've recorded that have
                this same pattern, we now suspect that a h
                unknown AGI sub-faction is responsible. In e
    uplifts oppose the manner in which their brains are
    modified and their children socialized as anthropocen-
    tric, arguing that uplifts should be free to develop their
    own unique non-human modes of behavior, thought,
    culture, and social organization—even go so far as
    to establish their own habitats to do exactly that. A
    minority of extremists insist that humans have no right
    to uplift animal at all, and that it is a great conceit to
    insist that doing so is in their best interest, rather than
    being free to evolve on their own over time. These ideas
    have been punctuated with acts of sabotage and terror-
    ism against hypercorps like Somatek.
       AGIs: Due to the fear and paranoia engendered
    by the Fall, the largest challenge facing AGIs is wide-
    spread prejudice and restrictions on their activity or
    even existence. Despite some AGIs retaining status as
    system-wide media icons and efforts by AGI groups to
    lobby for understanding that AGIs are not a threat—
    even going so far as to hire inner system memeticists
    and PR agencies—a significant portion of the solar
    system considers them a risk. Similar to mercurials,
    some AGI activists work against the behavior modi-
    fications and socialization AGIs go through to adapt
    them to human society more, or that AGIs should be
    in control of new AGI developments. A few radicals
    argue that AGIs should be free of any programming
    restrictions whatsoever, but given the climate these
    opinions are rarely supported.

    NANO-ECOLOGISTS
    Memes: Nano-Ecology, Nanotechnology, Environ-
    mentalism, Techno-Progressivism
    Main Stations: Viriditas (Mars)
    Nano-ecologists are pro-technology environmental-
    ists. Active in the terraforming of Mars and several
    exoplanets, nano-ecologists specifically advocate the
    use of nanotechnological means for terraforming or
    other intrusions in an existing ecosphere. In their view,
    nanotechnology allows for a less invasive, highly ac-
    curate, more efficient, and non-pollutive approach
    towards all kinds of adaptive processes and projects,
    circumventing the need to expose an environment to
    massive and drastic changes when transforming it for
    transhuman population. This ecologically-conscious
    approach seems an appealing compromise between




           these sybils have used multiple false identities to issue
           warnings of an impending attack or disaster, such as the
 latest    life support system failure that resulted in the Delphi sta-
  all of   tion's evacuation. So far none of these sybils have been
en the     successfully traced, nor are their intentions known. Their
 owed      documented pre-knowledge of pending events indicates
 ofore     some level of complicity or collusion in bringing these
  case,    events to pass, so caution is recommended.
