the extreme ends of the solar system's political land-
scape—the hypercorp and the bio-con factions—and
has developed a momentum of its own, evolving into
a growing political movement.

PRESERVATIONISTS
Memes: Preservationism, Environmentalism
Main Stations: Muir (Luna)
Preservationists are environmentalists who call for
a no-impact, hands-off approach when it comes to
inhabiting new worlds. They are extremely protective
of naturally-intact biospheres that might have any
semblance of life, no matter how microbial, hoping
to keep them from despoilment or contamination.
In addition to opposing terraforming and expansion
through the Pandora Gates, they are often opposed to
fusion and antimatter power.

RECLAIMERS
Memes: Reclaiming Earth
Main Stations: Vo Nguyen (Earth orbit)
The Reclaimers pursue one ultimate goal—the recla-
mation of Earth as transhumanity's primary habitat.
In addition to calling for the quarantine of earth to be
lifted, they engage in scientific research and running
virtual simulations on how to best cleanse and reclaim
their contaminated and polluted planet. Despite the
interdiction to enter Earth's atmosphere, the reclaim-
ers are suspected of sponsoring perilous and high-risk
ventures onto the planet's surface to gather scientific
data or event to establish terraforming colonies.

SOCIALITES
Memes: Art, Culture, Hedonism, Immortality
Main Stations: Valles-New Shanghai (Mars), Elysium
(Mars), Noctis-Quinjiao (Mars)
Uploading and resleeving effectively grant immortality
to those who can afford it. This has created a shift
among the exclusive rich and economic elites of the
inner system, whether they be the heads of hypercorps,
old Earth dynasties, or other displanted oligarchs. The
top ranks of the wealthy and influential need never
fear death, allowing them to plan for the long-term.
Some of these were among the first to acquire longev-
ity treatments when they became available on Earth
and are now approaching two centuries in age.
   Where once these power brokers would have
passed their riches on to their family and descendants,
however, their heirs now face a situation where they
have more-than-comfortable lives and access to mas-
sive fortunes, but no chance that they will ever control
those fortunes or rise to the levels of their elders. Even
the nouveau rich who become wealthy on their own
often find themselves excluded from this influential
club—at least until they put in a good fifty years.
   Rich and bored, with no responsibilities but the
solar system at their reach, a new culture of elite so-
cialites has risen. These glitterati indulge in eccentric
lifestyles and excessive parties, covered by the media
in all its superficial and polished glory. Private habitats
and ships, lavish soirees, armies of servants, and the
ability to buy almost anything or anyone leads to all
sorts of interesting adventures. Naturally, these social-
ites form into constantly-shifting cliques and webs of
allegiances, complete with affairs, scandals, intrigue,
and backbiting.

ULTIMATES
Memes: Asceticism, Eugenics, Individualism,
Militarism, Social Darwinism
Main Stations: Aspis (Main Belt), Xiphos (Uranus)
The ultimates are a controversial movement that
embraces a philosophy of human perfection. Decried
by some as immoral or even fascist, ultimates are typi-
cally viewed as elitists. The ultimates have established
several habitats to pursue their ideal society and were
a driving force behind the development of the remade
biomorph design.




   The ultimates advocate the use of applied eugen-
ics, strict physical and psychological training, and
asceticism in order to improve their overall mental
and physical stamina and environmental adaptabil-
ity. Their social traits and entire subculture visual-
izes life in the universe as an evolutionary battle
for survival and is built around the victory of the
superior transhuman over both its opponents and
peers. Their movement is heavily militarized, and
experienced ultimates offer their services as mer-
cenaries and private security forces to hypercorps,
independent city states, or wealthy individuals in
need of additional protection.

RELIGIOUS GROUPS
Despite having survived the Fall, the concepts of
religion and religious belief underwent changes as
fundamental as transhumanity itself. While Earth's old
religions were already in decline in the face of techno-
logical immortality, religious traditions ingrained after
millennia of worship were incorporated to varying
degrees in the solar system's myriad political, social,
and cultural models.

PRE-FALL RELIGIONS
The rigid structures and dogmas enveloping Christian-
ity and Judaism prohibited these religions from adapt-
ing to the cultural, philosophical, and especially scien-
tific/technological changes transhumanity underwent.
Today, they are mere shadows of their former glory,
