with many practitioners seen as pitiful individuals
unable to let go of their earthbound delusions. Islam,
while still holding some most controversial views and
values, managed to adapt by accepting a more liberal
and even secular view. Hinduism also prevailed to a
limited extent, considering resleeving technology an
element of reincarnation and rebirth and integrating
the various types of morphs available into the reli-
gion's caste system (with synthmorphs becoming the
“untouchables”). Overall, followers of the pre-Fall
religions mostly populate small habitats isolated from
transhumanity through both physical and philosophi-
cal distance.

NEW RELIGIONS
The Fall sparked the birth of new beliefs, essen-
tially embracing both transhumanity's technological
achievements as well as the devastating cataclysm
of the Fall as evidence for the existence of a greater
cosmic power.
   Neo-Buddhism is the only pre-Fall religious phi-
losophy that enjoys a steady popularity. Neo-buddhists
assert that transhumanist technologies are decreasing
suffering and increasing happiness, and that they will
also allow the continual progression of transhumanity's
understanding of the universe through successive lives.
   Techno-Creationists believe that the destruction of
Earth was a sign from God, showing transhumanity
the error of its ways. They believe that through tech-
nological advancement and social engineering, trans-
humanity will achieve co-existence with its diverse self
as well as with extra terrestrial intelligences, thereby
finding new purpose and eventually, enlightenment.
Attracted by the similarities to the Brahman of Hin-
duism, the highest cosmic spiritual being, Techno-Cre-
ationists enjoy a steady influx of converted Hindus.
   Xenodeism is another new—though relatively
minor—ideology that begins to show religious at-
tributes. Xenodeists worship the Factors and Iktomi
as emissaries or prophets of a great godlike race that
laid the seeds of creation throughout the universe
millions of years ago and therefore are the ultimate
creators of transhumanity.

CRIMINAL FACTIONS
Technological progress and social and behavioral
experimentation did not root out crime or criminal
tendencies among transhumanity. As long as there
are inequalities and restrictions, criminal syndi-
cates are likely to flourish and even adapt new
technologies to expand their operations through-
out the solar system. Though small criminal outfits
of every flavor exist from habitat to habitat, a few
larger organizations with influence across the solar
system deserve mention.

INTELLIGENT DESIGN CREW (ID CREW)
Major Stations: Rhea (Kronos Cluster)
The ID crew specializes in electronic crimes and in-
formation brokerage, including credit and rep fraud,
identity counterfeiting, ego trading, data theft, and
fork-napping. Information on the syndicate's origins
was lost during the Fall, but the ID Crew is believed
to have grown from several hacker gangs assimilated
under the leadership of an infomorph consortium.
Their skilled use of memory manipulation software
and mesh intrusion suggests they benefit from the
help of sophisticated AGIs, however it is unknown
if these voluntarily assist the syndicate or if they are
somehow threatened into cooperation. Due to its
service sector, the ID crew maintains a minimalist
physical profile, but can be found lingering in the
dark recesses of almost any habitat or station mesh.
Its somewhat specialized services and activities so
far allow them to mostly stay clear of triad or Night
Cartel operations, though they have an ongoing ri-
valry with the Nine Lives syndicate.

NIGHT CARTEL
Major Stations: New Sicily (The Belt)
When affiliation to one of the many multi-ethnic
habitats replaced the concepts of ethnicity and na-
tionality, cultural heritage and traditions faded with
them into history. Several pre-Fall ethnic syndicates
formed a careful alliance of necessity at first, but
uploading and morphing soon after tore down any
remaining social codes or racial prejudice. Progres-
sive in both entrepreneurial and criminal vision, the
Night Cartel emerged from the remnants of Earth's
underworld syndicates, merging the best qualities
of each.
   The Night Cartel holds legitimate hypercorp status
in certain habitats while clearly working outside
the law in other, more law-abiding or less corrupt
regimes. The Night Cartel is involved in a number
of traditional crime outlets: racketeering, extortion,
kidnapping, pod slavery, and prostitution. They have
also adapted well to the latest technological develop-
ments and compete with the triads in the electronic
stimulant, drug, and nanofab piracy markets. Like the
triads, the Night Cartel sometimes operates though
legitimate hypercorp fronts.

NINE LIVES
Major Station: Legba (Main Belt)
This widespread network of soul-traders specializes
in the acquiring, trading, and overall trafficking of
transhumans. Their primary market lies in ego-trad-
ing: stealing backups, fork-napping, kidnapping and
forced uploading, and so on. Nine Lives are known
to run illegal infomorph-slave colonies as well as
organize pit fi ghts using all manner of physical
bodies (biomorphs, synthmorphs, animals) loaded
with all manner of consciousnesses (transhuman,
AI, animal, etc). Only the truly desperate look to-
wards the syndicate to be smuggled out of a habitat
or hypercorporate indenture. Their ruthlessness in
acquiring egos has earned them a fearful reputation
among the transhuman population as well as in
infomorph societies.
