PAX FAMILAE
Major Stations: Ambelina (Venus)
Though similar to the Night Cartel in that Pax Familae
holds legal offices and outposts in several habitats while
working underground in others, the difference between
the two syndicates couldn't be bigger. The entire Pax
Familae organization goes back to one person, Clau-
dia Ambelina, the syndicate's founder and matriarch.
Relying excessively on cloning and forking technolo-
gies, each individual member of the syndicate is a de-
scendant or variant of Claudia. Biomorphs are cloned
from Claudia's original genetics or even sometimes
sexually-produced offspring (thanks to sex switching
bio-mods), while egos are forks. All members are ut-
terly loyal to Claudia and show their family affiliation
with pride and arrogance. Individually, each remains
slightly but notably different, though all are calculating
and ambitious. Regular re-assimilation of forks and XP
updates are used to keep each variant aware of each of
the other's activities—once you've met one version of
Claudia, the others will know you.
   Pax Familae engages in a wide assortment of legal,
dubious, and illegal operations, each tailored to the
needs of the particular habitat in question. Common
ventures include venture capital manipulations,
reputation network gaming, financial consulting, info
brokerage, stock manipulations, banking fraud, and
loansharking.

PIRATES
Most pirates attack automated cargo ships and long-
range supply convoys, with the occasional raid on an
asteroid mining station, research outpost, or brinker
habitat. On rare occasions they have been known
to attack commercial cruisers to rob the wealthy or
kidnap socialites. Many pirates take advantage of
scum fleets as cover, trading with them and using their
limited maintenance capabilities. Quite a few also
make sideline profits as smugglers and/or free traders,
often utilizing connections to one of the crime syndi-
cates or political outcasts.

TRIADS
Major Stations: Qing Long (Martian Trojans)
The only major Earth syndicate to survive the Fall
almost unscathed, the triads dominate the solar
system's underworld by their sheer membership size
and a history of centuries of economic and political
influence. Having evolved into legit enterprises and
small economic consortiums already before the Fall,
the triads gained a foothold during the early coloniza-
tion of space thanks to the masses of Chinese workers.
Since the Fall, they have used their influence to spread
to numerous habitats, taking advantage of the dispari-
ties in wealth and restrictive refugee policies to create
flourishing gray and black market enterprises. Part of
their success also lies in their continual utilization of
ethnic Chinese social cues to ensure their insularity.
   Though numerous small triad outfits exist, usually
isolated to a particular station, there are four large
triad groups worthy of mention. Each of these wields
enough influence to engage in system-wide criminal
activities. Traditionally they operate through small to
medium-sized gangs local to a specific habitat or use
their legal outfits as a font for their endeavours.
   The 14K Triad controls a large part of the casino
industry and the various forms of illegal gambling,
betting, and rigged lotteries. Through their Galaxy
Entertainment Group, a legal casino and gambling
hypercorp, the 14K maintains tight connections to
politicians, celebrities and influential entrepreneurs in
several habitats and can afford the luxury of a private
police force, the Pai Gow (Double Hand). Using the
casino business for money laundry, they are also heav-
ily involved in loan sharking and credit/ID fraud.
   The Shui Fong—though smaller than the 14K—
caters to the vices and addictions of indentured
habitat workers, miners, and other laborers, supplying
drugs and illegal XP, running prostitution rings, and
arranging illegal pit fights and gambling tournaments.
The origin of the Shui Fong's fierce rivalry with the
14K lies in the ruins of Earth's pre-Fall history, but
the hatred between the two factions was carried into
space and continues to simmer.
   The Sun Yee On once ranked second among Earth's
biggest triads, with over 25,000 suspected members.
They profit primarily by selling cheap copies of nano-
fab blueprints and rigged makers and fabbers. Legal
products are distributed through their Wushuang Cor-
poration, while illegal goods are patched together by
enslaved infomorphs in virtual sweatshops in remote
corners of the mesh. The Sun Yee On's second main
profit source are fake Earth nostalgia items, such as
jewelry, documents, coins, and other collector's items.
   The Big Circle Gang is the smallest of the four triad
factions with only approximately 8,000 members.
They run a large part of the solar system's drug trade,
producing organic drugs, smart drugs, and narcoalgo-
rithms of all kinds in secluded habitats or abandoned
asteroid mining and processing facilities converted
into drug labs.

FIREWALL
Firewall has been on the forefront of the secret fight
to save transhumanity since the Fall. Firewall is an in-
dependent network of cells and individuals recruited
from all sorts of factions, cultures, backgrounds,
and habitats. Potential new recruits are approached
in secret and told they possess skills or knowledge
of use to a clandestine network seeking to secure
transhumanity's continued survival. Firewall's agenda
is simple: to protect transhumanity from threats of
existential scope, regardless of whether such risks
emerge from within transhumanity or are of external,
alien origin.
   Firewall operatives—known as sentinels—are en-
couraged to act independently and utilize their own
resources. Sentinels are connected by a social network
known as the Eye, which they can use to acquire help
and additional needed skills or resources. A sentinel's
