 i-rep on this network indicates how much they are
 trusted and will be a factor in determining what
 aid they can call in. Firewall also takes care of large
 expenses and logistics when necessary, such as ego-
 casting and resleeving needs. Sentinels are guaranteed
 resurrection, either via cortical stack or by backup, if
 they lose their lives on a Firewall op.
    Sentinels are generally expected to be on-call—
 when something comes up in their vicinity or that
 their particular specialty might call for, they'll be
 brought in on a job. Sentinels are usually grouped into
 ad hoc special ops teams appropriate to each mission.
 Though many sentinels pursue their own agendas
 after completing a mission for Firewall, it is not un-
 common for sentinel teams to remain in contact, share
 information or continue to work together on Firewall-
 related assignments over a longer period of time.
    Firewall operations are usually organized and
 managed by proxies, agents who maintain Firewall's
 decentralized infrastructure. Proxies typically possess
 more information than individual sentinels and will
 dispense such information as they deem necessary
 to the mission, according to each sentinel's i-rep and


PROJECT OZMA
               [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]       to disc
               [Public Key Decryption Complete]            TITANs i
               You won't find this group mentioned          howeve
               on the conspiracy boards—Consortium         view, wi
               security is too tight to allow slip-ups.    inner sy
               If you haven't heard of Project Ozma        officials
               before, consider this your warning.         was fold
                  Project Ozma was the name of an             Firew
               international collaborative SETI project    Ozma i
               before the Fall. It briefly entered public   around—
               discourse after the Fall and the discov-    interests
               ery of the first Pandora Gate as a Plan-     many tim
               etary Consortium initiative to attempt      haps th
    need to know. Each proxy's means of contact, mission
    briefing, and overall methodologies differ greatly.

    PROMETHEANS
    A prominent topic among conspiracy theorists is the
    existence of a group of seed AIs calling themselves
    Prometheans. Rumors of these entities predated the
    Fall and occasionally flare up as some new evidence
    comes to light, though such evidence is almost always
    discredited soon after. According to some theories, the
    Prometheans predated the TITANs and may even have
    been responsible for bringing the TITANs into exis-
    tence. Others postulate that the Prometheans were a
    TITAN splinter faction who broke off and attempted
    to counteract the TITANs activities during the Fall.
    Still others whisper that the Prometheans are not of
    transhuman origin at all, and are actually a digital
    alien mindform that found Earth and now actively
    interferes with transhuman affairs. Whether the Pro-
    metheans are hostile, friendly, or indifferent remains a
    matter of much conjecture and contention. Prominent
    organizations like the Planetary Consortium discount
    such rumors or otherwise remain silent.




 he whereabouts of the          of Firewall, or maybe their agenda is
  galaxy. Shortly afterwards,   entirely different. I've heard some spec-
oject Ozma dropped from         ulation that they're tasked for preparing
from all public mention in      for and handling alien contact. All we
 mesh servers. Consortium       know is that they operate at the deep
ply claim that the project      black budget level and they have insane
 to other departments.          amounts of resources at their beck and
oesn't know what Project        call. They're also vicious as fuck, the
 t we know they're still        type to shoot first and question your
  they seem to have similar     backup later. Standard SOP if you run
 ve butted heads a few too      counter to a Project Ozma op is to bail
 or it be a coincidence. Per-   out fast and stay hands off. We've lost
  the Consortium's version      dozens of agents to them already.
