  Coronal habitats are easily detectable at a great dis-
tance because of the bow shock preceding them and
the plasma tail left behind in the solar wind.

ATEN
Operated by a consortium including hypercorp
interests and the University of New Shanghai, Aten
supports a population of about 12,000 transhumans.
Rumors abound that military research is a major com-
ponent of this habitat's mission. Aten is heavily policed
and difficult to visit. The most publicized discoveries
from this habitat involve propulsion systems and new
solar energy collection technologies.

HOOVERMAN-GEISCHECKER
The argonauts and Titan Autonomous University are
the major supporters of this habitat, which supports a
population of about 4,000. In contrast to Aten, access
to this habitat is relatively open. Major avenues of re-
search include pure science and research into corona-
adapted morphs.

UKKO JYLINÄ
Ukko Jylinä is the name used by outsiders for the
suryas' safe harbor. In the surya tongue, the name
for the place is a common sequence of helioseismic
vibrations. When transposed fifteen octaves upward
into the usual range of transhuman hearing, this
sound is a chaotic rumble to most ears, but the suryas
consider it one of the most beautiful sounds the sun
makes.
   Ukko Jylinä is more of a camp than a hab, an area
of refuge for suryas during severe solar weather. It
also serves as a place for suryas to socialize and mate,
replenish water from imported iceteroids, and egocast
or resleeve. The population therefore fluctuates a
great deal, usually hovering around 300, but swelling
to 3,000 (nearly the entire surya population) during
heavy weather. Ukko Jylina also has a few modules in
which non-surya morphs can survive.
   Very little of Ukko Jylinä consists of enclosed hab
modules. Instead there are many utility modules
with their access ports open to space. Bereft of the
solar wind, suryas within the camp generally wear
gas-expelling maneuvering harnesses or resleeve in
salamanders if they need to do work requiring fine
manipulation.

VULCANOIDS
The Vulcanoids are a population of asteroids that lie
between Mercury and the Sun. Based on the predic-
tions of early 21st-century science, the number of
Vulcanoids is unexpectedly small.

V/2011-CALDWELL
Discovered in the early 21st century and subject to a
flyby by a Japanese solar research mission in the 2020s,
V/2011-Caldwell was nothing but a line on astrono-
mers' catalogs, notable only for the virtual lack of cra-
tering on the one side that was photographed. Then, a
few years after the dust settled from the Fall, a small
team of prospectors from Venus discovered a Pandora
Gate. Now controlled by TerraGenesis, Caldwell was
used primarily for exoplanet research for several years,
though the hypercorp is now engaged in several alien
world terraforming and geo-engineering projects. Ter-
raGenesis regularly sells gate access to other hypercorps
and organizations. Caldwell is a remarkably smooth,
spindle-shaped asteroid about four kilometers long and
half a kilometer in diameter at its widest point. Called
the Vulcanoid Gate, it is situated at the bottom of a
deep crag near one of the asteroid's narrow poles.

MERCURY
The closest planet to the sun has a mass comparable
to Luna but is a great deal denser due to its iron-nickel
core. Mercury rotates slowly and has no atmosphere,
so that its day side is hot enough to melt most metals,
while its night side is bitterly cold. Because it lacks
many of the elements needed for transhuman colonies
to be self-sufficient, Mercury is sparsely inhabited,
save for a handful of solar power relays, a few un-
derground mining stations, and a single large surface
mining concern, Cannon.

RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS
Most of Mercury's economy is based on mining.
Iron, nickel, and other metals make up 70% of the
planet's mass, making it the richest source of ferrous
metals outside of the asteroids. Mercury also does a
brisk business in relaying solar power and serves as a
jumping-off point for solar research concerns unwill-
ing or unable to support stations in the solar corona.
Mercury has limited Helium-3 deposits, although these
are predominantly mined for local use. It is an open
secret that several powers have antimatter production
stations here. Officially, these stations are massive
solar power relays, but the immense toroid particle
accelerators and large spherical magnetic containment
units required for antimatter production and storage
are nearly impossible to disguise.

CALORIS 18
The only known site of TITAN activity on Mercury
during the Fall, Caloris 18 was a sparsely-crewed solar
power relay station belonging to Lukos, a now-defunct
Russian corporation. Vanya Ilyanovich, the AGI ad-
ministering the facility, rounded up all of the station's
transhuman inhabitants and fused their morphs into a
gigantic, centipede-like abomination before destroying
itself in a failed attempt to merge consciousnesses with
all of the minds in its creation. Since then, Caloris 18
has been under strict quarantine.

CANNON
Mercury's largest surface settlement is a city-scaled
solar-satellite-powered mobile mass driver that crawls
along the cool side of the planet, flinging apartment
building sized ingots of extracted metal into space.
The habitat is owned almost entirely by the hypercorp
