Jaehon Offworld, which built Cannon with backing
from Lunar banks looking to diversify in anticipation
of a post-He3 Lunar economy. Most of the 10,000
inhabitants are Jaehon employees, and security is
tight. Cannon makes a long loop of the heavily-mined
Caloris basin during the long Mercurian night before
following a route that takes it around the planet's
northern hemisphere, avoiding the blasting rays of
the sun. Along the way, it stops at a series of mining
operations, collecting the gigantic ingots for launch
into orbit.

VENUS
Venus is Earth's closest neighbor and the planet most
like it in terms of size and geology. It is a rugged
world of volcanic mountains, canyons, high plateaus,
and sweeping volcanic planes crisscrossed by river-
like magma channels. Much of the surface is basaltic
rock. The climate of Venus is one of the most inhos-
pitable in the solar system. Perhaps only the hideous
radiation of the inner Jovian moons presents a more
difficult challenge to transhuman colonization. The
Venusian atmosphere is a superheated maelstrom of
carbon dioxide and sulfuric acid, with an atmospheric
pressure at its surface equivalent to that five kilome-
ters below the surface of Earth's oceans. Venus also
lacks more than trace amounts of hydrogen, meaning
that water must be imported in the form of iceteroids
from the outer system.
   Nonetheless, transhumanity has come to Venus,
and with it, debate over how to make use of the
planet. Venus has no permanently inhabited surface
settlements other than a few equipment and supply
caches used by planetside researchers. Despite dif-
ficulties, transhumanity has found survival strategies
that work here. The most surprising of these are the
aerostats, lighter-than-carbon dioxide habitats that
float in the thick Venusian atmosphere. Aside from
a few independents or ones loyal to the Planetary
Consortium, these aerostats are the base of the new
Morningstar Constellation power bloc. Notable for
their research labs, nanofab design houses, software
studios, and luxury resorts, the Constellation's aero-
stats are increasing at odds with Planetary Consor-
tium and Lunar-Lagrange Alliance interests.
   On some aerostats, areas populated only by inden-
tured synthmorphs are open to the Venusian atmo-
sphere. Some 500,000 transhumans live in aerostat
habitats and another 10,000 on the surface. Roughly
5,000,000 transhumans live in habitats orbiting Venus.
   Though the Planetary Consortium is considering
the launch of a Venusian terraforming project, this
plan is actively opposed by the Morningstar Constel-
lation. The Constellation's aerostats see the terrafor-
ming proposals—which include massive cometary
bombardment or building a planet-sized sun shade
to cool the atmosphere—as not only unworkable but
disruptive to their lives and profits.
