   Venus is a fascinating place for climatologists, ge-
ologists, and other planetary scientists. The discovery
of Venusian protobacteria created a new branch of
life sciences overnight, though so far the practical ap-
plications for organisms with such radically different
metabolisms from terrestrial life have been limited.

GERLACH
Gerlach is an O'Neill cylinder supporting about
100,000 transhumans. Generally recognized as
the research powerhouse of Venus, Gerlach is also
one of the strangest places in the inner system. The
inhabitants have strong ties to the argonauts and
sympathies for the outer system autonomists and are
strong proponents of morphological freedom, cogni-
tive experimentation, and open innovation. Gerlach's
main activities are planetside research and explora-
tion, hostile environment morph design, and aerostat
construction.

OCTAVIA
Octavia is the most successful aerostat habitat to date
and the political center of the Morningstar Constella-
tion. It maintains an altitude of roughly 55 kilometers
above the northern highlands of Ishtar Terra. Octavia
resembles an immense, mushroom-shaped skyscraper,
450 meters tall, ringed at its center by four radial
outrigger spars, each ending in a stabilizing gas en-
velope filled with helium. The cap of the mushroom
is a hard, translucent dome that provides an open,
park like space while also serving as the main gas en-
velope (oxygen, which is much lighter than the CO2
making up most of Venus's atmosphere, is the main
source of buoyancy). The habitat is fluted from top to



VENUSIAN RUMORS
                [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
                [Public Key Decryption Complete]
                We need you to investigate some odd rumors
                circulating about activity on the Venusian
                surface. According to reports, an Omnicor
                research team went missing about a week
                ago. Unlike many Venus surface teams, these
                weren't teleoperated bots but actual synth-
                morph-sleeved researchers operating away
                from the safety of an aerostat's tether—which
                is suspicious behavior itself. Search parties
                have turned up no sign of the missing morphs,
                but scuttlebutt says they ran into signs of
                recent TITAN activity that have them freaked
                out. I haven't found any evidence to back this
                up, yet—it could just be some misinforma-
                tion to keep people from digging around part
                of the surface. I've heard that some security
                corps have some quantum data caches buried
                away down there. Looking into this may
                require getting a hold of some heat and pres-
                sure resistant synthetic morphs.
bottom, going from a diameter of almost 300 meters
at the base of the dome, to 15 meters wide at the very
bottom. A huge counterweight tethered to the bottom
of the structure prevents the habitat from capsizing
during storms. Atmospheric craft and shuttles from
orbit may land at flight decks near the base of the
outriggers. 500,000 people live aboard Octavia.

APHRODITE PRIME
One of 20 smaller aerostats, Aphrodite Prime hovers
54 kilometers above Aphrodite Terra. It is a center for
Venusian tourism; fully a quarter of this aerostat is a
resort for wealthy off-world visitors. Aphrodite Prime
is also the primary research station for the design and
creation of life forms adapted to live in the Venusian
clouds. This aerostat has a population of 300,000 and
features closed-environment test aviaries populated
with clouds of air plankton and schools of recently-
designed flying squid and balloon fish.

EARTH
Ecologically devastated and infested by the weird
spawn of the TITANs, transhumanity's homeworld
doesn't get many visitors. Earth's once-populous
urban regions are massive sprawls ruined by war and
heavy weather, infested with dangerous artificial life
and the occasional survivalist gang. Elsewhere, irradi-
ated blast zones and desolate wasteland prevail. Due
to harsh climatic conditions, the wilderness has been
slow to reassert itself, and vast swaths of dead forest
or burned grassland are common sights.
   Even from orbit, Earth shows deep scars. Breaks
in the sooty cloud cover created by orbital bom-
bardment during the Fall reveal continents ravaged
by coastal flooding, desertification, and radical
temperature shifts. The only known detonation
of an antimatter bomb within a planetary atmo-
sphere, centered on what was the Chicago-waukee
Metroplex in North America, left a crater over 200
kilometers wide wherein most matter was instantly
vaporized. Craters left by mass driver bombardment
dot the surface as well. Mass die-offs of lynchpin
species like honey bees and krill destroyed entire eco-
systems, leaving vast swathes of barren land and sea
inhabited by only the most adaptable species. Most
of Europe is sub-artic; much of Africa and North
America, desert. Ironically, transhumanity's deploy-
ment of nuclear weapons against TITAN surface
installations arrested the effects of global warming
by creating a nuclear winter. Nuclear attacks against
Earth have ceased, but the Lunar mass drivers still
occasionally hurl captured asteroids at suspected
surface works created by remaining TITAN war
machines. In any case, the damage from humanity's
warming of the globe was already done. The patterns
of life on Earth, and the very face of the planet, have
been irrevocably rewritten.
   Earth once had multiple space elevators in opera-
tion, but with exception of the Kilimanjaro beanstalk,
