the others were destroyed during the Fall, wrapping
around the planet as they crashed to Earth, leaving
swathes of destruction.

POPULATION
Earth's population is a matter of speculation. The
reclaimers and Lunar authorities, both of whom
spend a great deal of effort monitoring Earth, agree
that surface energy emissions suggest a population of
about one million once-humans living as servitors to
the TITANs, although these numbers assume patterns
of energy usage similar to those of pre-Fall humanity.
   Though the Planetary Consortium claims that
no survivors remain on Earth, reclaimer estimates
guess that between 20,000 and 100,000 free humans
remain. These numbers are hard to formulate, given
the limited number of remote areas where humans
could remain undetected while obtaining enough food
to subsist. Some areas likely to conceal sizable rem-
nant populations include the highlands of Papua-New
Guinea, the Ozark Mountains of North America, and
the jungle uplands of Vietnam and Laos, though it is
also possible that certain underground and undersea
settlements survive. Attempts to make contact with
survivors have universally ended in disaster.
   During the Fall, thousands of people unable to
escape Earth resorted to having themselves backed
up and transmitted off-planet. Many of these—along
with some who had no backups—also put there bodies
in cryogenic storage, hoping to wait out the Fall for
rescue. Some reclaimers have speculated that dozens
of these cryogenic facilities may still be functional.

HABITATS
Earth had a mature orbital industry sector and a con-
siderable population in orbit at the time of the Fall,
with over a billion people living full-time in space.
Earth orbit was one of the fiercest battlegrounds of
the Fall, however, and hundreds of habitats and other
installations were destroyed or rendered unusable. As
such, Earth orbit and the Lagrange points are littered
with the detritus of pre-Fall humanity. Derelict habi-
tats can mean tidy profits for intrepid scavengers, but
many are also infested with TITAN spawn and hostile
nanoswarms, making them incredibly dangerous.
   To make matters worse, someone or something has
unleashed a large number of autonomous killsats in
Earth orbit to interdict would-be visitors. Some of
these are repurposed pre-Fall military hardware, while
others are newer construction. So far, no one claims
responsibility for them. The Planetary Consortium
is suspected, as they support and sometimes enforce
a quarantine of the planet, but the possibility exists
that the killsats may be TITAN relics or the efforts of
another agency.
   Despite the chaos of Earth orbit, numerous habitats
remain active here, many of them participants in either
the Planetary Consortium of Lunar-Lagrange Alliance.
Dozens of formerly derelict habitats have also become
home to squatters, some of them with criminal intent,
others just looking to escape the squalor of life in
the overcrowded Lunar-Lagrange habitats, even if it
means taking a risk.

FRESH KILLS
Essentially an armed-to-the-incisors scum barge,
Fresh Kills is a salvage base near the edge of Earth's
L5 point. The base is built around a huge central
docking spindle with moorings for small craft and
habitat modules in the center, and massive weapons
batteries at either tip. Scavengers can moor their own
craft or, at considerable expense, egocast in, resleeve
at the facility, and hire shuttles for excursions. The
gun batteries are articulated such that any craft
showing signs of trouble can be hastily jettisoned and
destroyed. 2,000 transhumans live on Fresh Kills,
although the population is transient and fluctuates
a good deal.

PARADISE
Situated in a halo orbit at the Earth-Sun L1 point,
Paradise was an exclusive spa and resort station
for the ultra-rich before the Fall. In the wake of the
Fall, Paradise fell on hard times, swarmed as it was
with refugees and no longer an ideal vacation spot.
Recently, however, Paradise fell back in favor with the
inner system glitterati, who undertook measures to
expel many of the lingering squatters and refurnish
it as an elite social space. Recent rumors suggest the
Consortium's Hypercorp Council has used Paradise
for important face-to-face meetings.

VO NGUYEN
The Reclaimers maintain this station in high geosta-
tionary orbit, monitoring Earth and making plans
for potential geo-engineering efforts. Vo Nguyen is a
small O'Neill cylinder hidden in a dangerous cloud of
space junk and protected by swarms of killsats, gun
emplacements, and drones. It is occasionally used as a
jumping off point for secret surface expeditions.

LUNA
The first planetary body to host permanent human
habitation, Earth's sole moon is home to the second
largest population of transhumanity on a single
planet and remains a lynchpin of culture and econom-
ic activity. Lunar history has been shaped dramati-
cally by the Fall. Before the need to evacuate Earth
arose, it was expected that the Moon would remain
largely an automated mining concern, never attain-
ing a population of more than a few million. Luna
was never seen as an economically viable location for
colonization, the focus instead falling on Mars and
the outer system.
   When the Fall came, every polity that couldn't
hope for a shot at Mars or elsewhere set its sites on
Luna. The Indians were the only great power that
had invested heavily in Luna. The other three major
