 settlements, Erato, Nectar, and Shackle, were multi-
 national and hypercorp concerns with no strong na-
 tional affiliations. These three cities swelled overnight
 into polyglot refugee camps, while the Indian settle-
 ment, New Mumbai, was nuked black by the corps
 when it became apparent that a TITAN infection had
 taken hold there.
    Bereft of nationhood, Lunars developed their own
 resourceful, tough-minded culture which has emerged
 as a counterbalance to the radicalism of the outer
 system and the excesses of Mars.
    Transportation on Luna is largely by suborbital
 rocket, although trans-sonic bullet trains also oper-
 ate along shorter routes. The major space port is at
 Nectar. There is also a skyhook—a massive orbiting
 satellite spaceport that drags a massive tether, which
 acts as a space elevator along a track running across
 the Lunar surface south of the equator. As a result,
 many smaller cities lie along the skyhook track.

 FASHION/DESIGN
 Nectar is one of the three fashion/design capitals of
 the system (along with Noctis on Mars and Extropia).
 The Lunar design houses have two major advantages:
 an inventive population and a low planetary gravity
 that makes it easier to design for the low gravities that
 prevail in much of the system. Some habitats elsewhere
 in the system even choose a rotational speed that
 simulates Lunar gravity in order to get the greatest
 benefit from Lunar designs.




TILION'S JUPITER BRAIN
                 [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]
                 [Public Key Decryption Complete]
                 Our investigation into codename: TILION's
                 Lunar research activities has confirmed our
                 suspicions. The hypercorp is engaged in experi-
                 ments to convert confined spherical masses in
                 the Lunar interior into testbed micro-Jupiter
                 brains. The silicate-rich Lunar crust makes the
                 locations they have chosen ideal for the project.
                 Though we have not verified it, we believe that
                 TILION not only followed the trail of TITAN re-
                 search into this area, but is in fact in possession
                 of a small cache of TITAN-made computronium.
                 There is no saying what the TITANS may have
                 been using this cache for, what it may store, or
                 what may occur if TILION completes the proj-
                 ect and brings the micro-Jupiter brain online.
                 Fortunately, time seems to be on our side, and
                 we have several weeks if not months before
                 any significant part of the project is activated.
                 We will continue to infiltrate and learn more,
                 but we strongly suggest an erasure squad be
                 moved into position and placed on standby.
HELIUM-3 MINING
Although it's not the richest place to mine He-3, Luna
has such good infrastructure for extraction and dis-
tribution that it more than makes up for the fact that
Luna is very poor in hydrogen for more conventional
forms of fusion. Unlike the vast reserves of the gas
giants, however, the amount of readily extractable
He-3 in the Lunar regolith is finite. Some of the richer
deposits are already tapped out, and concerned Lunars
consider their world's future after these deposits are
exhausted a major issue.

FINANCE
The Lunar banks are the oldest (and thus richest) in
the system, though hypercorps like Solaris are close
on their heels. Interestingly, the rise of the reputation
economy in the outer system has not presented as
much of a problem for these banks as one might have
expected. Lunar banks got hip to the reputation game
long before the Martian financial institutions and
moved in to capitalize on it immediately. By the time
Martian banks knew what was going on, Lunar finan-
cial institutions had struck deals with the Extropians
and dominated all of the points of exchange where
favors could be bartered for cold, hard cash between
inner system corp types and outer system anarchists.
The same genius fueling Lunar design created a com-
plex barter to cash network that almost everyone
uses. While some autonomists find it infuriating that
they have to deal with a monolithic banking system
to get by in the inner system, others are simply happy
to deal with the Lunars instead of the Martians for
this service.

ERATO (ERATOSTHENES)
Erato (population 5 million) is a major mining center
consisting of a series of heavily shielded surface domes
and a vast underground city. Erato is centered around
the Eratosthenes crater on the southern edge of the
Mare Imbrium (Sea of Showers), in the northern
hemisphere of the Terra-facing side of Luna. Erato has
access to both the rich titanium deposits of the Mare
Imbrium and fields of Helium 3-abundant regolith.
  Erato is one of the oldest mining settlements on
Luna and one of the first to become commercially
viable. As such, many of the Lunar banks are centered
around this city. The vaulted heights of the Great
Cavern of Erato, originally excavated by a Sino-Euro-
pean conglomerate, reach a height of 1.5 kilometers at
the apex, leaving room for a teeming city of gardens
and towers grown from Lunar silicates and industri-
ous nanites, lit from above by sunlight entering via
great mirrored vents.

NECTAR (NECTARIS)
Nectar (population 9 million) lies about 100 kilo-
meters due east of Theophilus crater on the Mare
Nectaris (Sea of Nectar) in Luna's southern hemi-
sphere. Nectar is a design powerhouse, home to the
great Lunar design houses that set fashion and design
