trends for much of the solar system. Due to its loca-
tion relatively close to the Lunar equator, Nectar also
hosts Luna's primary long-haul space port and is on
the pickup path for the Lunar sky hook.

NEW MUMBAI CONTAINMENT ZONE
The incineration of the New Mumbai colony with
nuclear weapons during the Fall to prevent the spread
of TITAN infection left a scorch mark roughly 100
kilometers in diameter on the face of Luna that is
still visible from high orbit. The colony was a heavily
automated Helium-3 mining station, located in the
midst of rich Helium-3 fields on the edge of the Mare
Moscoviens. It remains a heavily-patrolled quarantine
zone to this day.

SHACKLE (SHACKLETON-NEW VARANASI)
Shackle (population 6 million), built in and around
the south polar Shackleton crater, is centered around
one of two major water extraction operations on
Luna. New Varanasi, the city of temples, is the most
impressive section of the city. Shackle was the other
major site of old Indian influence on Luna, and with
the destruction of New Mumbai holds special im-
portance to descendants of the Indian diaspora. New
Varanasi is a monumental artificial cavern complex
with an intricate canal system fed by melted ice from
the polar caps above. As a source of lifegiving water,
it now holds the same importance to the Hindu faith
once ascribed to the River Ganges on old Terra. Sur-
vivors of other Indian religions, such as the Jains and
Sikhs, have also made their temples here. This makes
Shackle a major pilgrimage site; tourism is the major
industry after water extraction. A small herd of Indian
elephants is a major attraction, and the elephant god
Ganesha, Remover of Obstacles, is extremely popular
on Luna, even with non-Hindus.

MARS
Earth was the cradle of transhuman civilization,
but Mars, with a population of 200 million, is now
its heartland. When humanity began its spaceward
diaspora, Luna was its first stop. Yet while Luna
boasts a sizable population, Mars was the first world
humans settled where they could thrive entirely
on locally available resources. During the first few
decades, the early Martian settlers dwelt in tin can
hab units, extracting methane from the local atmo-
sphere for rocket fuel and water from the Martian
permafrost, farming in inflatable greenhouses, and
eventually manufacturing enough greenhouse gases
to warm the planetary climate to the point where
transhumans could walk the Martian surface unpro-
tected, save for oxygen respirators.
   The second phase of the great project of terraform-
ing Mars—husbanding plant life and microbes engi-
neered to rapidly replace atmospheric carbon dioxide
with oxygen—was already underway at the time of
the Fall. A belt of orbital mirrors helps to heat the
planet by focusing the sun's rays. The spread of plant
life is a long-term project that will take several cen-
turies to produce a fully breathable atmosphere, but
the nigh-immortal transhumans of Mars are prepared
to be patient. A new homeworld is worth the wait.
Research into new plants and microorganisms capable
of releasing oxygen and nitrogen into the Martian at-
mosphere at an ever-accelerating pace is a major focus
of economic activity.
   In the meantime, the red planet is a place of star-
tling contrasts, from the stark beauty of its mountain
ranges and high desert, to the slowly-greening bot-
tomlands of the equatorial Valles Marineris canyon
system. In these bottomlands, oxygen levels are
slowly rising, and liquid water can now be found in
canals that had already been dry for millions of years
when transhumanity's ancestors came down from
the trees. Mars is a popular destination for travel-
ers from around the system. Many Martians accrue
wealth by operating lavish hotels, offering tours of
historical sites, and leading wilderness expeditions to
the rugged highlands and vast deserts of the untamed
Martian frontier.
   Mars now sports five vast, domed cities, mostly in
the equatorial regions, along with numerous smaller
settlements. Settlements are connected by surface
roads, a network of near-sonic maglev trains, and air/
spaceports from which suborbitals, airships, and near
space rockets fly on regular schedules. Thanks to the
abundance of methane fuel and the one-third Earth
gravity, transhumans on Mars have finally got their
flying cars as well, and all settlements have well-de-
lineated rights of way for these vehicles. Meanwhile,
in the wild uplands, planetologists and terraforming
engineers dwell in small villages, living the simple life
in ruster morphs while seeing to the continued devel-
opment of the Martian climate and atmosphere.
   As a partially terraformed planet with vast tracts of
unused land, Mars is one of the few places that can
offer new sleeves to infomorph refugees. Martian bro-
kerage houses do a brisk business in the purchase and
resale of infomorph contract labor, with agreements
(for some) leading to eventual sleeving. This has led to
a sizable Martian underclass, however, organized as a
growing resistance movement under the Barsoomian
banner (though the hyperelite socialites disparagingly
call them “rednecks”).

REGIONS
Mars is broadly divided between the lowlands of the
north and the highlands of the south, which in many
places are separated by dramatic cliffs up to two kilo-
meters high. Mars has seasons just as Earth, and both
north and south poles have permanent ice caps that
persist despite transhumanity's success in warming the
planet. Both regions present obstacles to terraforming.
The northern plains are open and windswept, while
the rugged southern uplands remain a difficult terrain
for life to gain a foothold. Even so, tough Earth spe-
cies like cacti and succulents are able to grow in the
best spots.
