   Ma'adim Vallis: This deep canyon system on
Mars holds one of the Planetary Consortium's most
treasured possessions: the Martian Gate. This Pan-
dora Gate was originally discovered by nomadic
Barsoomians, then violently wrested from their hands
by hypercorp troops—an event that still rankles the
rednecks. As different hypercorps themselves nearly
came to blows, the Hypercorp Council was forced to
step in and offer a resolution that all could agree to.
A new hypercorp was founded—Pathfinder—which
would control exploration and exploitation of the
gate and resources beyond, with special privileges and
rights given to Planetary Consortium members. The
Martian Gate is now a staging point for numerous
exoplanet colonies, though some fear the prospect of
keeping a presumed TITAN artifact operational on
transhumanity's most populous planet.
   Olympus Mons: Mars' most notable landmark is
the mighty shield volcano Olympus Mons, on which
the first—and still principle—Martian space elevator
was constructed. Similar in shape and origin to Earth's
Hawaiian Islands, but now dormant, Olympus Mons
is one of the highest mountains in the solar system,
rising 27 kilometers.
   Olympus, the settlement in the volcano's caldera
around the base of the space elevator, was once the
chief city of Mars, but waned in popularity as a place
to live when terraforming made other regions more
attractive. A maglev train from Olympus takes a little
over three hours to reach Noctis; air travel is even
quicker. Despite the waning of the city, the space el-
evator still sees heavy use.
   Valles Marineris: Most of transhumanity's ter-
raforming efforts center around the winding Valles
Marineris canyonlands, which twist and turn over
4,000 kilometers east-to-west along the Martian
equator. In these relatively warm bottomlands, liquid
water is becoming abundant and the land is green with
hardy Terran plant species like crab grass, dandelions,
and towering Douglas firs (which botanists estimate
may reach heights of 180 meters in the low Martian
gravity). 75% of the transhuman population of Mars
lives in this region, giving it the highest density of
transhuman habitation in the solar system.
   The Zone: Officially labeled the TITAN Quaran-
tine Zone, the TQZ is a large area stretching from
the smooth plains of Amazonis Planitia (between the
Tharsis and Elysium volcanic areas) and southeast to
Arsia Mons (just west of Noctis). This zone is known
to be crawling with leftover TITAN machinery:
warbots, nanoswarms, and other dangerous things.
Several devastated habitats lie in this region, including
the former Islamic stronghold of Qurain. Few dare
venture here, though some rumors suggest that Bar-
soomian smugglers make use of the Arsia Mons caves
and even scavenge for TITAN tech, despite the risks.
Planetary Consortium drones keep a vigilant eye on
the Zone's borders, though for unknown reasons the
TITAN relics rarely stray beyond its bounds.

ASHOKA
Ashoka is located in a crater in the Ares Vallis region
about 3,000 kilometers northeast of Valles-New
Shanghai, not far from the landing sites of the early
Viking and Pathfinder probes. The town is a popular
spa and spiritual retreat for Martians wanting to revis-
it their pioneer roots. It is also an active terraforming
station and a major point of contact between the semi-
nomadic Barsoomian culture of the high desert and
the settled Martians of the equatorial canyonlands.
10,000 scientists, historians, terraforming workers,
and spiritual gurus live in the town and surrounding
area. A major attraction is a museum housing the
Pathfinder lander and the Sojourner rover (which was
still operational when humans landed and discovered
it circling endlessly in a crater). The Viking lander is in
another museum a short monorail ride from town. In
a move that infuriated historical purists, all three ma-
chines were given modern hardware upgrades when
discovered and now house AIs who act as historians
