  of early Mars exploration. Sojourner is particularly
  friendly and sometimes leads lucky groups on walking
  tours of early landing sites.

  ELYSIUM
  Located in the Elysium and Hyblaeus Chasma in
  the north of the Hesperia region in Mars's eastern
  hemisphere, Elysium is the entertainment capital of
  the system and the largest Martian city outside of
  the canyonlands of the equator. It is also the most
  physically remote of the large Martian cities, though
  transhumanity's advanced transportation technol-
  ogy (suborbital flights and rocket flight from habitats
  above) make this remoteness a trivial quality.
     Elysium and Hyblaeus Chasma together make up
  a 250-kilometer long canyon system in the shadow
  of Elysium Mons, a 14-kilometer mountain located
  about 200 kilometers northeast of the city. In between
  is the Zephyrus Fossae, an undulating, windswept
  lava plain. The city was the vision of one person,
  Zevi Oaxaca-Maartens, an eccentric entertainment
  magnate who was intrigued by the close proximity of
  the eminently terraformable Chasma to the unspoiled
  Hesperian terrain.
     The city is only 30 years old but already boasts
  a population of 9 million transhumans. Elysium is
  mostly built into the canyon walls of the Chasma,
  sprawling over a 75-kilometer stretch, all of which
  has been domed over. Unlike the big domed metro-
  plexes of the south, Elysium takes advantage of the
  canyon walls, which are close enough together that
  rather than building free standing domes, the builders
  have simply built great enclosing arches to completely
  cover the canyon. These expand northward year by
  year as the city grows. From low orbit, it looks like a
  great, glistening serpent.
     The Martian city of Elysium is the spiritual succes-
  sor to old Terra's Los Angeles as the entertainment
  capital of the solar system. Glamorous stars and
  blood drinking producers, coupled with a healthy
  dose of outrageous (if often vapid) transhuman
  creativity have made Mars an unrivaled media pow-
  erhouse. Elysium may boast more exalt and sylph
  morphs per capita than any other transhuman city.


MARTIAN MANHUNT
              [Incoming Message. Source: Anonymous]         A wee
              [Public Key Decryption Complete]           Hassan N
                  Those deaths you asked me to look      word is th
              into? It's looking worse than we feared.   vice for th
                  I took a buggy car out to the Zim      visit, thou
              settlement. It's just a collection of      was nervo
              tin can modules, supporting a small        drinking b
              terraforming ecostation and facilities     hide out in
              for nomadic rednecks. On average,          the experi
              it's home to 150, if you count the 20         Turns o
              or so pleasure pod AIs that serve as       ruster mo
              local “entertainment.”                     full inden
    Image is everything here, and to visitors it may seem
    as if everyone in this city is either blindingly beautiful
    or calculatedly ugly. The most successful perform-
    ers and entertainment tycoons live lives of glittering
    privilege that would make the richest gerontocrat in
    New Shanghai mildly envious. Everyone else, from
    up-and-coming game producers to the virtual ero
    performers, has to hustle constantly.

    NOCTIS-QIANJIAO
    With a population of 13 million, Noctis-Qianjiao is
    the major metroplex in the west of the Valles Mari-
    neris region, an area known as Noctis Labyrinthus.
    Although not as hospitable as the Eos region in which
    Valles-New Shanghai lies, Noctis Labyrinthus is con-
    sidered prime real estate for its gorgeous scenery and
    well-developed river systems. The metroplex boasts
    two major domes: Qianjiao, on the northern bank
    of the River Noctis, and Noctis City (normally just
    called “Noctis”) to the south. Connecting the two
    domes and spanning the river is a sprawling network
    of lesser domes and souks, although these have been
    pushed north and south over the years as the planet
    warms and the river grows wider.
       Noctis-Qianjiao is the center of the Martian design
    and fashion industries, which in the abundant Mar-
    tian economy arguably makes the city as important
    as much larger Valles-New Shanghai. This settlement's
    proximity to the Zone sometimes alarms visitors, but
    there have been no public incidents to cause concern
    so far.

    OLYMPUS
       Olympus, with a population of 1 million living
    in a space designed to accommodate 6 million, is
    something of a ghost town. The former principal
    city, built in the caldera of Olympus Mons around
    the space elevator, is now fallen into disuse. As the
    temperatures rose and the climate improved in the
    Valles Marineris canyonlands, most of the popula-
    tion left the windswept caldera for more hospitable
    surroundings. Olympus is not and never was a large
    domed city, consisting instead of a souk-like network
    of minor domes and antiquated tin can hab modules.




 o, a nomad known as          back. The ego hunter showed up in Zim
 rolled in. He's a regular,   and Naceri lost it. He killed the ego
e runs a lone courier ser-    hunter and everyone else in the room.
 soomians. On this recent         We found a spime's sensor records
his behavior was off. He      that show Naceri transforming. He also
nd agitated. He told one      killed half a dozen people simply by
 that he'd been forced to     looking at them.
 Zone for a few days and          That's right. This bugger's infected.
 had put him on edge.             The Martian Rangers are hot on his
aceri had run off with a      trail, but they don't know what they're
without working out his       dealing with. So we're off to try and
 to Fa Jing a few years       catch him—it—first. Wish us luck.
