Low atmospheric pressure and bone-freezing tem-
peratures at the city's altitude of 27 kilometers mean
that most transhumans venturing outside the souks
and hab modules still need the equivalent of light
vacsuits to survive. Martian Alpiners, a rare morph
found in few other places, are not uncommon here
due to the harsh conditions.
   The city center is well-maintained and carefully
overseen by the Olympus Infrastructure Authority,
a minor hypercorp that operates the space elevator.
The outskirts are economically depressed and some-
times dangerous, mostly deserted and populated by
squatters, indentured downloads on the run, and
other people who really want to be left alone. Oc-
casional outbreaks of dangerously mutated artificial
life are one of the few reasons for which the Author-
ity bothers to intervene in the outskirts. Otherwise,
the old tin can habs and their strange inhabitants are
left to decay.

PROGRESS (DEIMOS)
Progress is one of the largest Cole bubbles in the Solar
System. With 8.5 million residents, it is second in
population only to Extropia in the belt. Progress was
created when Fa Jing evicted all of the former residents
from the Martian satellite of Deimos, excavated the
inside of the moonlet, and used a massive solar array
to convert it into a bubbleworld. From an engineering
standpoint, Progress is something of an embarassment.
The habitat was originally meant to exceed Extropia
in size considerably, but difficulties with heating and
spinning Deimos forced Fa Jing to abandon their ef-
forts early or risk the moonlet breaking apart.
   Progress is nonetheless an impressive habitat, home
to hypercorp glitterati and an outpost for a host of
major political and economic concerns. Its sister
moon, Phobos, remains a warren-like tunnel habitat
due to the presence of multiple legal interests unable
to agree upon the disposal of the satellite.

VALLES-NEW SHANGHAI
The principle city of Mars, Valles-New Shanghai is
transhumanity's largest planetary metroplex, with 37
million inhabitants. Valles-New Shanghai lies in the
heavily terraformed Eos region in the east of the Valles
Marineris canyon system. The metroplex is comprised
of five major domes connected by a network of
Martian souks. The souks are a unique architectural
feature of large Martian cities, consisting of covered
thoroughfares and galleries lined with bazaars, eater-
ies, and squats. It is said one can find anything if one
spends enough time walking the souks.
   The domes themselves are tamer, with artificial
waterways (many of which now connect to the tenu-
ous rivers etching the surface of the Eosian bottom-
land), grand architecture, residential mini-arcologies,
entertainment complexes, and hypercorp conference
centers. The most impressive by far is the Bund, the
larger and older of two domes making up the city
of New Shanghai proper. New Shanghai is roughly
bisected by the twisting Ares, an artifical river that
helps regulate the dome's climate. Near its center is an
almost brick-for-brick duplicate of the original Bund
from the destroyed Earth city of Shanghai.
   The other four domes are Little Shanghai (a newer,
smaller dome adjacent to the Bund), Valles Center
(a business and financial center that rivals the Lunar
banks of Erato and Nectar), New Pittsburgh (also
called the Burgh, a hub of research and planet-side
industry), and Nytrondheim (housing major entertain-
ment districts).
   Valles-New Shanghai is transhumanity's wealthiest
population center, a hotbed of art and culture, and
one of the system's great centers of hypercorp activity.
The populace includes an extremely high percent-
age of gerontocrats, but their stifling influence on
culture, economic mobility, and the legal system is
only one force among many in a city of 37 million
people. The city has expanded so much to accom-
modate its exploding population since the Fall that
new construction is a constant. Crime and corruption
are widespread, though the worst of it is contained
to Little Shanghai. Valles is a place where dreams are
made and broken every day, if not every hour.

MARTIAN TROJANS
Not to be confused with the much larger Jovian Tro-
jans, the Martian Trojans are a small group of mostly
rocky asteroids trailing and preceding Mars at its L4
and L5 points.

QING LONG (AZURE DRAGON)
Qing Long, with a population of 2 million, is the
largest O'Neill habitat in the system. It is situated
among the Trojans at the Martian L5 point. Qing
Long has its roots in the Chinese Mars colonization
effort. Despite its exceptional size, it is one of the
oldest habitats of its type, having been built almost
entirely from metal-rich asteroids mined near its
present location.
   Qing Long is a major underworld haven. The habi-
tat's administration is beholden to several criminal
organizations who normally refrain from killing one
another. The habitat nominally obeys some hypercorp
principles, such as limited access to cornucopia ma-
chines, forking, and AGIs. However, thriving grey and
black markets enable people with the right connec-
tions to acquire just about anything here.

ASTEROID BELT
Spread out over a massive region between the orbits
of Mars and Jupiter, the belt contains a few hundred
asteroids greater than 100 kilometers in diameter, over
a thousand objects greater than 30 kilometers in size,
and countless smaller ones. Despite this, the total mass
of asteroids in the belt is only a fraction of one of the
inner planets, meaning that asteroids are spread out
over great distances. A spacecraft flying through the
belt is highly unlikely to encounter an asteroid unless
it deliberately navigates toward it.
