RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS
The rich, easily accessible mineral deposits in the
Belt were a major link in transhumanity's first steps
toward the outer system. Automated mining and
high-impulse ion boosters enabled outer system
colonists to move metal-rich Main Belt asteroids
into the orbits of Jupiter, Saturn, and beyond, where
metallic asteroids are much scarcer. This activity
continues to this day as transhumanity pushes fur-
ther out into the system.

HABITATS
Hundreds of small habitats, mostly involved in pros-
pecting activities, dot the belt. Distant from Earth,
settlements in the belt were largely spared the devas-
tation of the Fall. Both hypercorp and autonomous
outposts flourish here. Derelict habitats abandoned
when nearby asteroids were boosted into the outer
system or depleted are common here as well, although
some of these are now occupied by residents who are
best left to their solitude.

CERES
One of the system's three dwarf planets (along with
Pluto and Eris), Ceres is almost 1,000 kilometers in
diameter and hosts a population of almost a million.
Unlike most Main Belt asteroids, Ceres has an icy
crust with a layer of liquid water beneath it, like a
miniature version of Jupiter's moon, Europa. With
its abundant water, Ceres has a major role in resup-
plying other stations in the belt. Similar to Extropia,
Ceres operates largely along anarcho-capitalist lines.
However, the Hidden Concern, a cartel run entirely
by uplifted octopi, holds sway in the sub-crustal sea
and maintains a stranglehold, as it were, on water
extraction operations. Cerean octopoid morphs are
specially adapted to survive in the ammonia-rich
waters of the Hidden Sea.

EXTROPIA (44 NYSA)
This massive beehive habitat is a major crossroads
and anarcho-capitalist/mutualist marketplace. Ex-
tropia is a neutral free city whose infrastructure and
social fabric is maintained by a loose association of
anarcho-syndicalist affinity groups. Extropia's neu-
trality hinges on strategic alliances between key local
figures, their networks, and an unusual array of out-
side interests that include the Lunar banks, techno-
libertarian factions, and outer system colonies depen-
dent upon raw materials exported from the belt. The
hypercorps use Extropia as a tax shelter and a haven
from which to do illicit business. There are no laws
or government as such; visitors are advised to register
with an insurance and security provider. Named after
one of the first transhumanist movements, Extropia
is considered a utopia for transhumans looking for
body modifications. AGIs and forking are accepted
and allowed here. The transhuman population is
nearly ten million.
NOVA YORK (METIS)
One of the more unusual near-weightless habitats is
Nova York, the main city on Metis, a large nickel-iron
and silicate asteroid located in the main belt. Nova
York, the third largest habitat in the main belt, is a
thriving metropolis of 500,000, with the main portion
of the city located in a spherical cavern approximately
four kilometers in diameter, the top of which is two
hundred meters beneath the asteroid's surface. Lit
during the day by a series of huge light tubes in the
outer walls, at night the lights of the buildings cause
the surface of this sphere to resemble an enormous
geode. The habitat's basic design consists of many
thousands of exceptionally tall and fragile-looking
buildings that extend between one hundred and fifteen
hundred meters above the surface, as well as a few
buildings that stretch from one side of the cavern to
the other. In Metis's minute gravity of 1/140th of a g,
up and down have little meaning, and even relatively
fragile buildings are in no danger of falling down. The
vast majority of the buildings, including ones more
than one kilometer tall, are made from thin plastic
panels over a durable supporting framework. These
buildings jut out at all angles from the sphere.
   Many inhabitants of Nova York move from one
building to another by jumping, and a single leap can
carry someone many hundreds of meters. Residents
do not worry about falling—the combination of air
resistance and exceedingly low gravity means that
even someone falling from the top of the cavern to
the bottom is in no danger of injury. In this environ-
ment, the only real meaning of up and down is that
down is where you look for objects to come to rest
(as long as an air current does not pick them up and
blow them around).

JUPITER
Large enough that it could almost have formed the
nucleus of a protostar in its own right, Jupiter's mas-
sive size makes the Jovian System one of the most
challenging places in the system to colonize. Jupiter's
powerful magnetic field means that its inner moons—
and the outer ones, when their orbits pass through its
immense magnetotail—are bombarded with enough
ionizing radiation to kill transhumans not protected
by the heaviest of shielding within a matter of hours.
There are sixty-three moons and moonlets in the
Jovian system, but only the well-explored, populous,
regular moons are described here.

RESOURCES AND ECONOMY
Jupiter's powerful gravity well is a major hindrance
to gas mining in the planet's atmosphere, as even craft
that do not succumb to the violent, centuries-long
atmospheric storms can achieve escape velocity with
only the most powerful propulsion systems. Given the
need for heavy shielding on such craft, gas mining on
Jupiter is not nearly as efficient as on Saturn. Jupi-
ter has a tenuous ring system, much less dense than
Saturn's, which extends out for 20,000 kilometers
