landscape is patterned after the subdivisions and office
parks of an early 21st-century suburb. All buildings
have envirosealing so that the occasional bouts of en-
vironmental sepsis resulting from the poorly regulated
interior ecosystem can be purged with toxin bombs.
Less fortunate support personnel dwell in the beehive
warrens crisscrossing the moonlet's crust between
cavern and surface. Like most of Jupiter's moonlets,
Amalthea's space crawls with patrol craft and killsats,
making approach for unauthorized craft problematic
at best. 1.5 million transhumans live on Solano.

IO
Beneath Io's tenuous, patchy atmosphere of volcanic
gases and neutral atomic dust lies a barren, grayish
yellow, rocky surface coated with a thin frost of sulfur
dioxide. Tidal heating caused by gravitational inter-
action with Jupiter makes Io the most volcanically
active body in the system—so active that the meteor
cratering found on every other planet and moon is
completely absent on Io. Massive volcanic calderas,
lakes of molten rock, and geysers of sulfur dot the
surface, with eruptions and accompanying seismic
activity lasting months or years. Volcanic zones on
Io reach surface temperatures of up to 1,500 degrees
Kelvin, hotter than any body in the system.
   For all that, transhumanity's worst peril on Io is
radiation. Ejecta from geysers and volcanoes flow
with Jupiter's magnetic field to form a titanic, toroidal
flux tube that rotates with Io around the gas giant.
Travelers to Io must either use the heaviest radiation
shielding available or resleeve into synthetic morphs.
   Transhuman activity on Io centers around scientific
research and harvesting the volatiles ejected by Io's
geysers, particularly sulfur. Bases tend to be modular
and mobile due to the ever-changing seismic activity.
The Junta's most notorious prison, Maui Patera Reha-
bilitation Center, is dug into a (mostly) extinct caldera
wall north of the equator.

EUROPA
Europa has no atmosphere and lies within the fear-
some magnetosphere of Jupiter, and as such its surface
is bombarded with enough radiation for an unshielded
transhuman to receive an irrevocably fatal dosage
within a few days—much faster when Europa's orbit
passes through Jupiter's immense magnetotail. As a
result, transhumans on Europa dwell beneath the icy
crust, largely in the ocean below, adopting a variety of
aquatic and amphibious morphs for survival. The only
surface facilities are the heavily-shielded ice elevator
heads at Conamara Chaos and several other points
through which reactor mass and other crucial supplies
can be delivered to the Europans below.
   Transhumanity is still exploring and imaging the
Europan ocean floor, a task complicated by the hid-
eous pressures at work in these waters, which are ten
times as deep as the Earth's oceans. A further surprise
awaiting transhumanity was the terrain. The geology
of Europa suggested that beneath the ice would be
fathomless depths of black water ending at a depth of
nearly 500 kilometers in a relatively flat, featureless
sea bed. Were Europa a lifeless ball of ice and rock,
this would be the case, but over the estimated billion
years since the rise of life on Europa, tiny lithoderms
(analogs to Earth's coral) have built silicate reefs that
rise to within a few hundred meters of the ice crust. It
is on these biologically formed mountain tops, home
to complex ecosystems, that the Europans have built
their habitats.
   While based on water-carbon chemistry like life
of Terran origin, life on Europa is completely autoc-
thonic, having originated beneath an impenetrable ice
sheet that cut off Europa's subsurface ocean complete-
ly from outside. This is in marked contrast to Terran
life, which many biologists have theorized might be
the result of galactic panspermia, the slow diffusion of
microbes through the vacuum of space aboard comets
or asteroids. As such, the fauna of Europa are of great
interest to transhuman bioscience.

BIOSCIENCES
Europa's lifeforms, unique perhaps in the universe,
are its greatest treasure, and transhumanity's efforts
to catalog them are only beginning. The rush to ex-
ploit Europan biodivesity puts the Jovian Junta in an
uncomfortable situation. While they control space
traffic and commerce in the Jovian system, they lack
the native talent to take real advantage of knowledge
gleaned from Europa. At first, they engaged in ham-
fisted excise operations aimed at squeezing revenue
out of knowledge exports. But once farcasters and
egocasters came online below the ice, this type of
extortion no longer worked. Now the Jovians have
shifted to a two-pronged strategy of levying tariffs
on new equipment and people brought down the ice
elevators by hypercorps and research collectives, and
of holding the entire population of the moon hostage
by refusing delivery of key resources like reactor mass
and rare elements if protection fees are not paid.

HABITATS
Europan habitats take two forms: fortified fishing and
farming havens clinging to the spires of the lithoder-
mic reefs, and spherical bubble warrens constructed
by boring into the lower reaches of the ice crust and
shoring up the hollows created. The latter are the only
air-filled spaces beneath the ice. The largest warren is
Conamara, at the base of the Conamara Chaos ice
elevator. Conamara is surrounded by five nearby reef
havens, also considered part of the habitat. The total
population is 1.5 million.

GANYMEDE AND CALLISTO
Nearly as large in size as Luna, but darkly colored
and not as heavily cratered, Ganymede and Callisto
are very similar worlds. Neither is as dense (nor has
as much gravity), as their mantles consist of more ice
than iron rock. Both possess abundant volatiles and
water (albeit frozen), making them ideal candidates
