for habitation. Ganymede, with its differentiated sur-
face of rocky and icy terrain, has an iron core and thus
a faint magnetic field. Callisto, the smaller of the two,
is composed mostly of icy silicate clays. As on Luna,
most cities on Ganymede and Callisto are built below
ground to shield them from meteor impacts (and, on
Ganymede, from Jupiter's radioactive bombardment).
   While within the “protection” of the Jovian Re-
public, both moons are a patchwork of city-states.
Some are full members of the Jovian polity, while
others are only tolerated. Ganymede tends to swing
more heavily toward the Junta, as its citizens still
see the Junta-maintained infrastructure—accurately
or not—as necessary in such a hostile environment.
Callisto, outside the worst radioactive effects of the
Jovian magnetosphere, is an easier place for techno-
progressivism to gain a foothold.

HYODEN
The nucleus of this city-state was a research station
founded by a coalition of Pacific Rim nations in Calli-
sto's Valhalla region, a massive primordial impact zone
where the icy subsurface lies exposed, simplifying ex-
traction of clean water. When the Fall came, Hyoden,
which had long faced labor shortages, opened itself
to those refugees who could make it to Jupiter. Now
Hyoden has two million inhabitants, making it the
largest city-state on Callisto and the largest non-Junta
state in the Jovian system. Hyoden is itself heavily
militarized, as the tendency of the local authorities to
turn a blind eye toward operatives using their territory
for forays against the Junta makes for uneasy relations
with their powerful neighbor.

LIBERTY
Situated along the southern edge of the vast, rocky
plain called Galileo Regio, almost on Ganymede's
equator, Liberty (population 7 million) is the Junta's
largest planetary city-state. It is closely tied to Liberty
Station, a major shipyard and defense installation in
geosynchronous orbit. Major industries include ship-
building, space construction, fabrication, and security
products and services. The Castle, the central security
network point from which all surveillance data col-
lected in the Junta is monitored and processes, is
rumored to be in or near Liberty. Liberty is mostly
underground, but it boasts a number of parks in ar-
mored surface domes. If one were to spend enough
time topside, one would see the deceleration torches of
incoming metal asteroids from the belt bound for the
shipyards lighting up the sky several times a day.


THE TROJANS
(JOVIAN TROJAN AND GREEK ASTEROIDS)
The Trojans and Greeks are two 600 million-kilome-
ter-long arcs of scattered, icy rock asteroids sharing
the orbit of Jupiter. They orbit in the stable L4 and
L5 points sixty degrees ahead of and behind the giant
planet. Mars and Neptune also have Trojan asteroids,
but when someone speaks of, “the Trojans,” they're
normally talking about the Jovian groups. In the early
days, L4 asteroids (ahead of Jupiter) are named after
Greek heroes of Homer's Iliad; L5 asteroids (trailing
Jupiter) are named after heroes of Troy. Asteroids
discovered more recently break the old convention, as
there are far more objects in the Trojans than there
were characters in the Iliad.
   Politically, the Trojans and Greeks may be thought
of as a collection of sometimes overlapping neighbor-
hoods whose inhabitants tend to group around par-
ticular cultures, factions, and sometimes languages.
A neighborhood in the Trojans might span anywhere
from 250,000 to 2 million kilometers at its widest
point. Within neighborhoods, almost everyone knows
one other. Because of the wide dispersion of resources,
Trojan habitats tend to be small—from one to two
thousand people—and built largely along scum barge
or cluster lines (although it is never advisable to refer
to someone's habitat as a scum barge unless they refer
to it that way first).

RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS
Although the sheer size of the two regions means
a lot of cultural diversity, anarcho-collectivism is a
powerful meme here and the reputation economy is
prevalent. On one hand, neighborhoods, habitats,
and even individuals are expected to be self-sufficient.
Unlike the denser Main Belt, the Trojans lack the
safety net provided by pervasive transhuman pres-
ence. The ideal Trojan or Greek is a Neo-Renaissance
being, incredibly competent in a wide variety of fields.
A person who can't maneuver in zero g; maintain
their gear, ship, and hab; and navigate between rocks
and habitats can have a tough time surviving. At the
same time, a spirit of cooperation prevails. Bartering
services or even gifting them to gain reputation is
common. Everyone appreciates a specialist, as long
as they're not specialized at the expense of baseline
self-sufficiency.
   Prospecting and salvage are major activities in
the Trojans, where metals and rare elements are
scarce and settlers don't usually have the economic
muscle to import raw materials from elsewhere.
However, the Trojans are rich in silicates, volatiles,
and carbonaceous materials. Necessity has led to
many innovations in materials science. Beyond the
simple problem of raw materials, the widely scat-
tered habitats of the Trojans have to be wildly in-
ventive on many levels to retain their independence.
New robot, morph, and vehicle designs appear all
the time, enabling an unusual array of business and
leisure activities, like whaling (organizing a flash
flotilla to rapidly mine asteroids and comets with er-
ratic orbits as they pass near the Trojans), mekking
(simulated—or sometimes real—combat between
robotic suits or synthetic morphs on uninhab-
ited asteroids with interesting terrain), and shrining
(stealthing up on another habitat and resurfacing it
with nanosculpters to create an art object—mostly a
scum barge pastime).
