LOCUS
Locus is the largest cluster habitat ever formed. It
is still growing, with over one million inhabitants
in the habitat proper and another million in the
nearby suburbs of scum barges and small asteroid
stations. Locus is located in Cassandra's Reach, one
of the denser regions in the L5 Trojans. The habitat
is positioned at the center of mass around which the
two asteroids making up the binary object Patro-
clus orbit one another. Both Patroclus asteroids are
themselves inhabited and hold defense installations,
mines, and refineries.
   The design of Locus is very similar to the much
smaller Lot 49, but Locus is eleven kilometers in di-
ameter and somewhat irregular in shape, as growth
along some spars is faster than others. A quarter of its
total volume is cut out in a roughly conical shape all
the way to the Amoeba, an immense, softly glowing
sculpture at the center of the habitat. Some differences
from smaller Trojan clusters are dictated by Locus's
size. The immense structural spars radiating from the
habitat's center are hollow, with arterial floatways and
elevator-trams running inside of them. Lesser spars
run between the arterial spars, providing more moor-
ing points for modules. Adjacent to each arterial spar
are wide “roads” leading to the edge of the habitat so
that modules can maneuver out if the owners decide
to leave.
   Beneath the shimmering mesh stretched over the
geodesic frame to keep out micro-asteroids, tens of
thousands of small ships and habitat modules moored
along the spars pulse with an ever-changing array
of lights. Habitat modules and large ships are asked
to stay out of the conical empty space. This space
teems with small craft and people on thrustpacks or
voidscooters as they cross the habitat, play zero-g
games, or visit the free-floating spimes and sculptures
that dot the area. The Amoeba, which periodically
changes color and shape based on its resident AI's
programming (often it looks like some sort of animal),




             “Welcome to Locus. You voluntarily         “You hav
             assume the risk of organic damage or       the L5 Tro
             mental trauma by mooring here. You         the privat
             must bring or be capable of acquiring      your rece
             enough food, H20, oxygen, and shelter      requires u
             to survive for the duration of your stay   tination a
             in a harsh, asteroid-rich environment.     are unreg
             Weapons of mass destruction are pro-       ComEx ta
             hibited. Further guidelines for coexist-   continuity
             ing with your fellow entities are in the   arrival. Yo
             habitat survival guide. You and only you   for travel
             are responsible for yourself—learn to      of forks o
             love it!”                                  a perman
                —Locus Immigration AR broadcast         carrier on
                                                        continue?
                                                           —Com
   serves as a central reference point for navigation.
   When someone gives the address for a module, it is
   as a point on a spherical coordinate system with the
   Amoeba at its center. Large ships and shuttles dock on
   the outer surface of the habitat, at the terminal points
   of the arterial spars.
      Locus was founded by a joint anarchist-argonaut
   venture and was the fi rst major stronghold for
   the autonomist factions. Unlike Extropia, which
   has the tacit blessing of the Planetary Consortium
   and encourages the presence of security and insur-
   ance companies, Locus runs on a pure reputation
   economy. Security, maintenance, expansion, and
   defense of the habitat are all performed by vol-
   unteers. Inhabitants interested in security monitor
   incoming ships and operate crowdsourcing systems
   that dispatch volunteers to perform WMD scans on
   new arrivals. Ships that won't submit to a scan are
   asked to leave. If they don't, anyone who's designed
   a cool new weapons system recently is welcome to
   take a shot.
      Locus is one focal point in a cold war between the
   hypercorp-aligned inner system powers and a loose
   coalition of outer system interests. While saboteurs
   from the Planetary Consortium and other hostile
   entities can and do occasionally cause trouble on
   Locus, the hypercorps are currently unwilling to
   attempt a direct military attack on the habitat. The
   first time they tried, the Planetary Consortium and
   the Martian city-state of Valles-New Shanghai sent
   a small expeditionary fleet. The interlopers were
   caught completely off-guard by a fierce and well-
   coordinated defense. Six months later, they sent a
   much larger fleet. Help arrived from elsewhere in the
   Trojans and Greeks and from Titan, whose citizens
   took a dim view of any Planetary Consortium ex-
   pansion beyond the belt. The Titanians now main-
   tain a permanent base near Locus. Rumor has it they
   agreed to a mutual defense pact with one of Locus'
   citizens, possibly the famous programmer-armsman
   Teilhard Liu.



  sen the habitat Locus in   “The ComEx disclaimer? Yes, yes …
as your destination, using   Listen: my neighbor three doors toward
rrier Atsuko van Vogt as     the Amoeba from here is a physicist.
  ComEx corporate policy     She has a box that generates micro-
 inform you that the des-    singularities in her lab. If people along
arrier you have selected     my spar found out I'd stolen a fork of
 ed and possibly unsafe.     someone, they'd pop my stack with a
no responsibility for the    grapefruit knife and throw it in there.
 our consciousness upon      That's what we call, ‘accountability.' See
ssume any and all risks      if you get the same from ComEx.”
his point, including theft       —Atsuko van Vogt
etion. ComEx will include
 ecord of travel with this
 r file. Would you like to

gal disclaimer
