 LOT 49
 Lot 49 is moored to the small asteroid 28349 Pynchon
 in the amorphous Vonarburg-Shadyside neighbor-
 hood, toward the center of the L4 Greeks. Vonarburg-
 Shadyside is named after two rocks that roughly
 delimit its 500,000-kilometer length along the arc of
 Jupiter's orbit. Neighboring habitats within 100,000
 kilometers (with populations) include Craftsbury
 (450), Greenview (28), and Blackhawk (1020). With a
 population of 400, this station is more or less typical
 of the Trojans in terms of layout.
    From the outside, Lot 49 looks like a shiny, meshed-
 over geodesic sphere, 800 meters in diameter, with
 numerous protruding instrument spars and some
 triangles left open to space so that shuttles can pass
 through. The mooring to the asteroid is temporary in
 case a potential collision is detected. Inside, a central
 utility module with a communal reactor, factories,
 and machine bay is surrounded by evenly spaced but
 irregularly shaped habitat modules in a riot of colors
 and lighting schemes. Structural spars and floatways
 connect everything. One entire spar is given over to a
 rotating cylindrical module that generates about 0.7 g
 and contains medical, cloning, resleeving, and darknet
 egocasting facilities.
    Lot 49's population and most of their neighbors
 in Vonarburg-Shadyside tend to align with the scum
 and anarchist factions and speak a mixture of English,
 Portuguese, and Thai. Lot 49 is in a densely inhabited
 part of the Greeks, placing it near a crossroads. Main
 economic activities include shuttle design, whaling,
 and ferrying people and goods around the region.

 SATURN
 The second largest planet in the system is a much
 more favorable habitat for transhumans than Jupiter.
 Saturn's lower gravity and milder magnetosphere are
 a boon to gas mining operations, and for resource-
 hungry habs, the Rings are a feast (literally, in the case
 of the new Hamilton cylinder type habitats). Hyper-
 corps have a presence here, but any major expansion
 by the Planetary Consortium is kept in check by the




GATE EXPEDITION REPORT 901127
                Gate Code Setting: [Encrypted]            commu
                Gatekeeper Corporation Eyes Only          magne
                   Preliminary drone and sensor reports   had rep
                seemed to indicate the gate's exo-        moving
                planet environs were underground in       warren
                a cavern formed of carbonaceous rock         The
                with a nitrogen dioxide atmosphere.          Two
                There were no signs of life or sentient   tethere
                activity. A squad of gatecrashers was     deploy
                sent through, guided by an exploration    breadc
                drone, with a communication link back     its teth
                to the gate.                              what a
                   Approximately one hour after the       in a va
                team moved into the tunnels, consistent   identify
    anarchist stations of the Rings and the technosocialist
    Commonwealth of Titan.
       Because Saturn is so distant from the Sun, solar
    power generation is extremely inefficient. Growing
    photosynthetic plants with sunlight is impossible
    without large arrays of mirrors to focus the light. The
    abundance of water and volatiles makes the rings
    ideal for both scum barges and Hamilton cylinders.
    Gas mining is vital to the survival of almost every
    habitat and moon settlement in the Saturnian system,
    so habitats located further out from the planet that
    wish to be self-sufficient almost always maintain their
    own gas mining stations close to the planet. Security
    for these installations and the atmospheric skimmers
    and tankers they dispatch is tight, and it is never ad-
    visable to approach one unannounced.

    RESOURCES AND ECONOMICS
    Gas mining on Saturn supplies thirty percent of the
    system's reactor mass. This role is expected to grow
    as Helium-3 deposits in the Lunar regolith become
    less accessible. For ships traveling to the far reaches
    of the outer system, Saturn is an important alterna-
    tive to using Jupiter for gravity assists. Less restric-
    tive than Jovian regimes and richer in resources than
    the Trojans, Circumsaturnine habs and settlements
    are important innovators in habitat design and cul-
    tural organization. Since the discovery of the Pandora
    Gates, the Titanian Commonwealth is the only entity
    actively pursuing interstellar exploration through
    conventional means.

    THE RINGS AND CLASSICAL MINOR MOONS
    Saturn's rings are made up of countless small icy ob-
    jects, most of which range in size from dust specks to
    boulders 10 meters in diameter. The rings are desig-
    nated by the letters “A” through “F” in the order in
    which they were discovered. They vary in thickness
    between 100 and 1000 meters and in width from
    20,000 kilometers down to just meters. In places there
    are gaps between rings. The widest, the Cassini divi-
    sion, is 4,000 kilometers across.




 ion was lost due to electro-    members of the team, however, nor did
 erference. At this point they   it match any other database queries.
d nothing more notable than      The drone was detached from its tether
 over a kilometer through a      to search further, but shortly after sen-
 nnels.                          sors recorded some type of seismic
  was not heard from again.      event, and communication with the
rs after contact was lost, a     drone was also lost.
arch and rescue drone was           The gate was kept active for 8 more
ollowing the gatecrashers'       hours—the duration of the contract—
b trail, near the limits of      with no sign of activity. The gate was
 nge the drone came upon         then closed, the team reported as lost/
ared to be a severed hand        unretrievable, and the gate settings
 glove. DNA testing did not      were recorded with an orange flag.
  hand as belonging to any
