GATEWAY (PANDORA)
The Gateway settlement, on Saturn's outer shep-
herd moon Pandora, holds the first publicly known
wormhole gate. The Gatekeeper Corporation keeps
the gate open as a means of exploration and scientific
investigation for all factions and powers. Gatekeeper
was originally a Titanian microcorp but is now inde-
pendent. The Commonwealth of Titan still holds a
major stake in it, though not a controlling interest.
Granting autonomy to Gatekeeper Corporation was
a diplomatic maneuver made in response to Planetary
Consortium claims that the Titanians sought hege-
mony in the outer system. So far, Titan's neighbors are
buying it, even if the Planetary Consortium doesn't.

HYPERION
With its chaotic, virtually unpredictable rotation, Hy-
perion is a dangerous place to land ships. It remains
uninhabited.

IAPETUS
Iapetus is one of Saturn's larger icy moons and once
boasted a population of 200,000 living in the dense
warrens of Analect, its main settlement. Probably be-
cause it is one of the few large moons of Saturn that
contains sizable deposits of silicates and minerals in
addition to ice, Iapetus was a target of the TITANs
during the Fall. After enslaving a tenth of the popu-
lace as worker drones and using the rest as seed stock
for tissue cultures to feed their fellows, the TITANs
began to build what appears to have been a matri-
oshka brain. Iapetus now occupies twice the volume
it once did, the ice and silicate of the planet's outer
layers having been reworked into a delicate lattice of
circuitry millions of layers deep.
   Strangely, the project simply stalled at some point
prior to completion. Speculation has it that the
controlling intelligence was either destroyed by an
unknown outside force or devoured itself in a fit of
compuational ecstasy. Whatever the case, the drones
simply stopped working and died and the moon's au-
tomated defense grid went dead, leaving a strangely
beautiful but lifeless machine behind to slowly decay
from meteor impacts and gravitational stress. Several
research teams now reside in small orbital stations,
quarreling over the scraps. Rumor has it that a
number of researchers trying to understand the ma-
trioshka circuitry have lost their minds in the process,
perhaps by some mechanism akin to a basilisk hack.
It is also believed that some of the moon's internal
defenses remain active. If anyone has plumbed the
interior and come back, they're not talking about it.

MEATHAB
The full name of this unique habitat is Turn Yourself
Into a Giant Mass of Space Meat for Art!, and as the
name implies, 90% of the habitat's structure consists
of fast-cultured vat bacon, battened on the abun-
dant resources of the ring system. MeatHab started
out as someone's art morph, but then, against all
expectations, squatters moved in. MeatHab now has
a population of 500. Similar to a Hamilton cylinder,
the kilometer-long habitat harvests and processes ring
material to grow itself. The outer surface is frozen
flesh ten meters thick whose surface resembles a cross
between a tree trunk and flank steak. Past the axial
space dock is a warren of veinous, skin-covered cor-
ridors lit by bioluminescent panels and maintained by
small, reptilian symbiotes that eat away dead skin and
may have other immune functions as well. Gravity
inside is 0.5 g.
   The nameless biodesigner who created the
place—and who may or may not still inhabit the
gigantic morph—was a genius. Although the habitat
is not by any stretch of the imagination a pleas-
ant locale, it appears healthy. Its full workings are
not understood, and the inhabitants range from
extreme flesh freaks who are fans of the artist to se-
rious biodesigners studying the place to learn more
about its construction.

MIMAS (HARMONIOUS ANARCHY)
Led by legendary Chinese dissident poet Hao Lin
Ngai, Harmonious Anarchy broke from the Fa Jing
cartel during the tumultuous years prior to the Fall.
Hao sought to create a society in the spirit of the
ancient Taoist state of Great Perfection that existed
in Szechuan 1,700 years earlier—with considerable
updates from modern thought. Harmonious Anarchy
is an Extropian mutualist society heavily involved in
software engineering, logistics, and relocation of me-
tallic asteroids to the outer system. Most of Mimas is
a very low-g beehive arranged into Black, Red, Yellow,
Green, and White neighborhoods, based on the five
classical directions of Chinese mythology. Each color
boasts an ornate central cavern, with extended fami-
lies living in radiating subwarrens. While adhering to
mutalist economic principles, Harmonious Anarchy
simultaneously takes a traditional Chinese approach
to social organization, with family at its core.

NORSE, INUIT, AND GALLIC MOONLETS
In addition to the classical satellites described here,
three groups of small objects unknown to early
astronomers orbit the planet. These moonlets are
designated as the Inuit, Gallic, and Norse groups.
Because these moonlets were still little explored by
the time of the Fall, most of them remain sparsely
populated. With a few exceptions, inhabitants of the
moonlets are generally people who want to be left
alone. The exceptions are Skathi and Abramsen (for-
merly S/2007 S 2), which, along with Phoebe, were
captured and moved into Titan's orbit, where they
serve as defense installations.

PAN (IZULU)
Volkograad's closest competitor is this anarcho-
capitalist outfit, most of whose founders were South
African. iZulu has a somewhat lower capacity than
Volkograad but will ship reactor mass to unusual
