locations like the Trojans and the Kuiper Belt. iZulu is
a very crowded beehive with nearly 400,000 inhabit-
ants and an unusually large number of infugees. The
nations of sub-Saharan Africa were only starting to
achieve widespread 20th century-levels of prosperity
in the late 21st, and so they had the lowest capacity to
physically evacuate their citizens during the Fall of any
region on Earth. iZulu and a handful of other habitats
with roots in Africa thus have high infomorph popula-
tions and millions of people in dead storage.

PHELAN'S RECOURSE
Phelan's Recourse (usually just called “Phelan's” by
inhabitants) is the largest nomadic settlement in the
system, with a population estimated around 250,000.
Phelan's is a swarm of some 10,000 small craft and tin
can habitat modules that orbits Saturn along a highly
elliptical path somewhat inclined to the plane of the
ecliptic. The swarm's orbit is calculated to maximize
the number of encounters with near moons and sta-
tions, providing a six to eight hour window in which
craft can leave the swarm for trade. Phelan's Recourse
passes through the rings once a month, allowing craft
to resupply with water and volatiles.
   Phelan's accepts all comers. One could meet just
about anyone here, from the government in exile of
East Timor to Hasidim from Brooklyn. The core of
the swarm is the Stills, a fusion-illuminated grain
farm and distillery operated by an allegedly reformed
gang of Irish travelers who conned their way off
Earth a few weeks before the Fall and escaped to
the outer system. The Stills produce Phelan's Ma, the
most sought-after whiskey in the system, and Phelan's
Da, possibly the worst beer ever made. Despite the
Phelans' protestations of legitimacy, the criminal
element is heavily represented here. The swarm
represents an important link in red and gray market
supply chains.

PROMETHEUS (MARSEILLES)
Marseilles (population 80,000) is a beehive habitat
operated by the Titanians. It is rumored to harbor an
antimatter factory, a theory supported by the large
number of skimmers that arrive from the surface rela-
tive to the number of tankers that leave.

RHEA (KRONOS CLUSTER)
At a 764 kilometer diameter, Rhea is Saturn's second
largest moon. Composed almost entirely of ice, Rhea's
surface is sparsely inhabited, but a population of over
800,000 dwells in Kronos Cluster, a major habitat
in orbit. Kronos Cluster's mass microfactured violet
spherical modules make it look like an immense, irreg-
ular bunch of grapes suspended in space, an impres-
sion added to by the winding space dock (nicknamed
the Vine) extending from the wider end. Within the
mass of habitat modules, the Vine branches out in all
directions, forming massive central arteries and twist-
ing side passages. These can be traversed by pushing
off hand and toeholds on the walls, or by catching
hold of fast-moving grab loops that move along “fast
lanes” in the walls of major floatways.
   Nearly five kilometers long and three wide, Kronos
has major problems with crowding and infrastructure
that have kept it from growing to the same size as
Locus. The designers simply did not plan for the size
the place might reach, and as a result another 150,000
people live in suburbs of tin can habs and scum barges
in the space around the habitat.
   Kronos can be an extremely dangerous place.
Insurance companies don't like operating here, and
the habitat is a patchwork of criminal and anarchist
neighborhoods. Anarchist neighborhoods are generally
heavily armed and safe, but a trip from an anarchist
holding to the spaceport is best done with a group of
well-armed friends. Criminal neighborhoods are only
safe if you're in the neighborhood's controlling gang,
and even then conflicts flare up regularly.
   The situation is exacerbated by the Kronos Port
Authority, a junta of ultimates who operate security
for the spaceport. Originally an Extropian hypercorp,
the KPA fell into the hands of the ultimates when
they decided that they could profit more directly
by owning the company outright than by working
as hired muscle. They violently ousted the original
management and now use indentures in worker pods
to maintain the port. This situation is tolerated by
the local crime bosses and loathed by the mostly-
anarchist autonomist citizens, but so far no one is
able to challenge the KPA, which enforces use of the
port rather than any other mooring point with kill-
sats and artillery.

TETHYS (GODWINHEAD)
Composed almost entirely of ice, Tethys is one of Sat-
urn's larger moons and the site of Ithaca Chasma, a
2,000-kilometer long valley covering three-quarters of
Tethys's circumference. Fifteen years ago, prospectors
from an ethnically Indo-British autonomist collective
called the Rioters touched down on Godwin Head, a
projection in the chasm wall so named because it re-
sembles a headland projecting out into the sea. Instru-
ments on their ship, the Caleb Williams, had detected
what looked like mineral deposits in the ice, rare on
Tethys. What they found instead were relics thrust
to the surface by a geological event eons earlier, the
remains of primordial life that became extinct millions
of years ago when Tethys cooled and its subsurface
ocean froze over.
   Godwinhead is now a dense, efficient settlement
of 200,000 built into the five kilometer high canyon
walls. The central point of the town is the Caleb Wil-
liams, which has been towed back into a sheltering
cavern in the wall and converted into a communal
workshop and town hall. The face of the valley wall
is honeycombed with excavated ice caves hosting
habitat modules, connected by conduits to a com-
munal utility grid. The trusswork and cabling for the
utility system is also the public transit system, easily
traversed in the minute Tethyan gravity. The unofficial
