mascot of Godwinhead is the Tethyan Flatworm, a
two millimeter-long translucent worm that represent-
ed the pinnacle of Tethyan evolution. A large number
of the inhabitants are involved in biosciences, xenopa-
leontology, and prospecting for frozen lifeforms.
   Tethys shares its orbit with its Trojan moons
Telesto and Calypso, both of which are small and
sparsely populated.

TITAN
Saturn's largest moon is shrouded in a permanent
orange atmospheric haze, hellishly cold (averaging
180 degrees below), and whipped by winds produced
by tidal forces four times stronger than those influenc-
ing the Earth's climate. On its face, it appears even
less hospitable than the airless balls of ice and rock
comprising every world between Titan and Mars. The
meager sunlight reaching its surface is insufficient to
grow any but the hardiest plants, the mostly-nitrogen
atmosphere is dangerously toxic, and the surface
is dotted with lakes and seas of liquid methane. In
spite of all this, abundant hydrocarbons, a thick at-
mosphere, and diverse chemistry make Titan one of
the few worlds in the system where colonists may rely
entirely on local resources. Titan's population is now
over 60 million.
   Social money and the microcorp system have led
to some spectacular gains and failures. On the up
side, Titan's civil resleeving industry produces more
morphs than Mars and Luna combined. Massive
infrastructure programs have provided enough space
for 60 million people to live comfortably on a hostile
world. The Large Collider, the biggest particle accel-
erator ever produced, in polar orbit, enables physics
experiments that can be performed nowhere else in
the system. And two years ago, Titan dispatched the
first conventional interstellar probe, the Aubade. It
will reach Proxima Centauri in just under 20 years.
   On the down side, Titan's “body for every mind”
law burdens the civic resleeving system with a lot of
people who no one would ever have bothered resleev-
ing otherwise. The failure of the Scoop project, an
extremely costly attempt to build a pipeline from
Saturn's surface to low orbit, allowing massive gas
extraction without costly atmospheric skimmer op-
erations, stymied Titan's ambitions to become a major
antimatter producer. Titan does produce antimatter,
but on a much smaller scale than was envisioned
when the Scoop project began.
   Commonly spoken languages on Titan include
Norsk, Francais, Deut ch, Mandarin, Svensk, Dansk,
and Suomi. Most citizens inhabit hazers, a tall, fine-
boned morph with very similar characteristics to the
Martian ruster. Parapelagia for gliding and flying
in the light Titanian gravity are a common biomod.
Titanians do three years of compulsory civil service
at the age of majority, with an emphasis on military
and security forces except for conscientious objecters.
Every citizen who has done military service is part of
the militia and has an assault weapon in their home.
AARHUS
Located near Titan's south pole on the shores of On-
tario Lacus, a wide, shallow sea of liquid methane,
Aarhus (population five million) was the first site of
human habitation on Titan, chosen for its proximity
to abundant hydrocarbons. The city is the physical
hub of Titan Autonomous University (TAU) and hosts
numerous other academic institutions, most notably
Titan Tech, a major engineering school. Unlike Mar-
tian universities, which have few physical campus
buildings, TAU and other Titanian schools draw
many of their students from the widely scattered
habitats of the outer system, where delays in radio
communication make distance learning ineffective.
Fully 20% of Aarhus's population are students, many
of them offwordlers.
   Aarhus's layout is typical of Titanian cities. Three
central domes are surrounded by numerous smaller
structures, including lesser domes, fusion plants, and
industrial outbuildings, the most massive of which is
the now-abandoned methane utility plant on the lake
shore. The dome interiors are hung with lighting rods
and heavily built up with tall, narrow buildings, most
of which have upper decks where hazers on the wing
and pedal-powered microlights can land. Exterior
structures usually have outer walls built of ice for
shielding and structural support with internal walls
extruded from local silicates. Many buildings are a
rich azure or other shades of blue for contrast with
the ever-present orange glow of the Titanian sky.
   Unlike most Titanian cities, Aarhus relies primarily
on fusion power. Aarhus is the center of Titan's native
preservationist movement, which opposes inefficient
use of native hydrocarbon resources due to possible
long term effects on Titan's climate.

NEW QUEBEC
New Quebec lies on a plain in the Aaru region sur-
rounded by endless rippling dunes shaped by Titan's
powerful winds. The region's diverse chemical resourc-
es supply the colossal nurseries that have made New
Quebec the system's largest single producer of morphs.
   The city is 50 kilometers from Montmorency Lacus,
a 20 kilometer-wide crater lake of liquid ethane and
methane. Originally thought to be an impact crater,
rare on Titan, geological studies later showed it to be
the collapsed remains of an extinct cryovolcano. Situ-
ated in a rainy area, the lacus slowly drains over the
crater lip at Montmorency Cascade, a 200 meter car-
bonfall that empties into a series of alluvial channels
from which the Quebecoise pump its output for fuel.
   The St. Catherine Tong, the most dangerous native
Titanian mob, is based in New Quebec. Titanian law
is generally very permissive regarding individual free-
doms, so the vices this gang trades in are of the black-
est: snuff pods, stolen alpha forks, and nanoweaponry.
A ready supply of fresh morphs bought from corrupt
microcorp nursery administrators further fuels their
rackets. The Tong is extremely violent and a major
embarrassment to Commonwealth security forces.
