NYHAVN
Set near the equa-
tor amid the rolling ice
hills of the Xanadu region,
Nyhavn (population 12 mil-
lion) is the largest city in the outer
system and the capital of the Titanian
Commonwealth. Nyhavn's massive cen-
tral dome, with its elegant blue towers and
bioengineered parklands, rivals New Shanghai
in size and ambition. Three surrounding domes
and a sprawl of subsidiary structures are connected
by high-clearance flyways, where ground vehicles
and microlights form a steady stream of traffic at all
hours. At the same time, the squalid blandness that
prevails in the Martian suburbs and outlying souks
is absent; the dwellings and neighborhoods of the
Titanian working class display a riot of color and
design, empowered by public fabricators limited by
none of the enforced scarcity of Martian economics.
For all its idealism, the Plurality is not immune to a
desire to showcase its achievements.
   Outside the city is a pipeline leading from the
vast Tyska Lacus, 100 kilometers distant. Common-
wealth Skyport, Titan's principal spaceport, offers
quick access to Commonwealth Hub, the Titan sys-
tem's long-haul space dock, located in geostationary
orbit above the city. The surrounding countryside
is dotted with smaller settlements connected to
Nyhavn by trains and a well-developed network of
surface roads.
   Nyhavn is a major media center, with daily life
closely attentive to the debates and decisions of
the Plurality. At the same time, it is a cosmopolitan
place, where Titan's microcorp movers rub shoulders
with visiting anarchist traders and (less commonly)
legations from the inner system. There is an active
underworld, despite the efforts of security forces,
with the local St. Catherine Tong engaged in continu-
al low-intensity warfare with triads from throughout
the system.

PHOEBE, SKATHI, AND ABRAMSEN
After the conflict at Locus, the Plurality became
embroiled in a hot debate regarding the dangers of
hypercorp adventurism in the outer system. It was
generally felt that the Planetary Consortium hoped to
keep the outer system in a position similar to where
the United States kept Latin America by meddling in
its affairs throughout the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries, and that the only counter to this was a
show of force. Titan's thick atmospheric haze makes
ground-based space defense systems considerably
less effective than on other worlds, but satellites and
space platforms were too vulnerable to serve as com-
mand and control centers.
   The solution was to capture three of Saturn's small
retrograde moons—Phoebe, Skathi, and Abramsen
(once designated S/2007 S 2, now renamed after a
pioneering Titanian economist). Phoebe is the largest
of the three objects. The other two
were maneuvered into the system's L4
and L5 points. The calculations required
to relocate these bodies were painstak-
ing, and the energy expenditure tremendous,
but all three now serve as major components of
Titan's orbital defense grid. Whether the system cre-
ated thereby is impregnable has yet to be tested.

URANUS
Once thought of as gas giants like Saturn and Ju-
piter, Uranus and Neptune differ from the larger
planets in that they contain large amounts of water
ice, methane, and ammonia and have rocky cores at
their centers. This region of the system is sparsely
populated. Uranus orbits at a distance 10 AU beyond
the orbit of Saturn, 20 times the distance of the Earth
from the sun.
   Uranus, the coldest planet in the solar system, is a
blue-green sphere of ice and gas. Seen from afar, it is
virtually featureless compared to Saturn and Jupiter,
but up close subtle cloud formations and a tenuous
ring system may be observed. Probably due to a colli-
sion with an Earth-sized world when the solar system
was young, Uranus rotates on its side, such that one
pole faces the sun for 42 years at a stretch, and its
moons orbit at a sharp angle to the solar ecliptic.
   At the time of Eclipse Phase, Uranus's south pole
is experiencing its south polar mid-spring, during
which thick methane clouds darken the polar atmo-
sphere. It may be the unusual tilt of its axis and the
accompanying strange seasonal weather that give
rise to the unconfirmed rumor that the alien traders
called the Factors have created a settlement hidden
in Uranus's atmosphere.
