CHAT NOIR AND FISSURE GATE
Located on Oberon, this is the Uranian system's pri-
mary long haul spaceport, with a permanent popu-
lation of 8,000. Chat Noir has fairly advanced ego-
casting, resleeving, and manufacturing facilities for a
frontier outpost and is operated by several collectives
of anarchists. The reason for all the infrastructure
is Fissure Gate, the only Pandora Gate in anarchist
hands (despite several Planetary Consortium expedi-
tions to wrest control of it).
   Fissure Gate was discovered by a prospecting ex-
pedition from Chat Noir, then a tiny outpost. Seeking
deposits of the useful carbonaceous ices that make up
about 20% of Oberon's mass, they instead chanced
upon subsurface radio emissions near the foot of Mt.
Hippolyta. After using triangulating the source, the
prospectors landed and used subsurface imaging gear.
What they got back was a blurry image of a rock fis-
sure containing an ambiguous mass of mixed density
and an extremely dense, possibly metallic object with
a shape too regular to be anything but a structure
or large artifact—all under 500 meters of ages-old
frozen cryovolcanic outflow. The gate at Pandora was
already publicly known at this time, so the prospec-
tors drilled down, suspecting they'd found an alien
artifact. They were not to be disappointed, although
the discovery yielded gruesome salvage: the barely
recognizable corpses of eleven gatecrashers.
   Why and how the Fissure Gate was erected under
the ice remains a complete mystery. At some recent
point, however, it was completely buried, with only
a thin pocket of space between it and the surround-
ing ice. When the eleven emerged, buried in an
airless space beneath 500 meters of ice, there was
barely room to move, let alone escape—but the gate
wouldn't let them back through. Several of the crew
had recoverable cortical stacks. This lucky handful are
now prominent citizens of Chat Noir, but none plan
to resume gatecrashing as a career.
   The Fissure Gate remains in anarchist hands,
operated and defended by the Love and Rage Col-
lective. The gate is made available to almost anyone
unless their rep score is tanked or they are pursuing
commercial interests (ruling out most hypercorps).
Support for gatecrashers is minimal—traverse the
threshold at your own risk. Any discoveries made via
this gate, however, must be shared for the collective
good of transhumanity.

TITANIA AND OBERON
Uranus's two largest moons are sparsely populated,
with only about 10,000 transhumans living on each
body. Most stations are mixed dome and beehive set-
tlements and range from hypercorp communications
and research outposts to autonomist freeholds. The
pair are more chemically complex than most moons in
the outer system, consisting of about 30% rock, 20%
methane and similar carbonaceous ices, and 50%
water. Titania is home to a spectacular canyon that
rivals the Martian Valles Marineris. Several settlements
on Titania cater to tourists from the inner system and
the gas giants, who visit for rocketing, mekking, and
other sports in the canyon.

XIPHOS
One of two major strongholds of the ultimates, Xiphos
is a Hamilton cylinder orbiting in the Uranian ring
system. Though most of the tech underlying Hamilton
cylinders is open source, the station's frighteningly
efficient weapon systems are not. Rumor has it the
ultimates traded some major favors to Gorgon De-
fense Systems in the process of building this station.
Where Aspis, the ultimates' inner system habitat,
is a relatively open place, used by the Ultimates for
contact with potential mercenary clients, Xiphos is
off limits to anyone not of this faction. The rumored
population of ultimates here is only about 10,000, but
the ultimates purchase a large number of infomorph
indentures from Mars. Although there are no reports
of any of these indentures returning, rumor has it that
the ultimates download indentures serving in sensi-
tive areas into deaf, visually limited flats with no AR
implants and limited mental capacity.

NEPTUNE
Frigid, swept by 2,100 km/h winds, and tinged blue by
methane traces in its atmosphere, Neptune is the last
major planet in the system, orbiting at a distance of 30
AU from the sun. This far from the nearest star, plants
will not grow and solar power is useless. The only
sources of power are fusion, focused starlight, waste
heat, and chemical reactions. The hypercorp presence
in the Neptunian system is virtually absent, as the long
communication lags and extreme travel distances from
the rest of the solar system mean that few Neptunian
ventures garner profits. Similarly, the Titanian brand
of technosocialism has never found roots here. The
few transhumans who live out here are a resourceful
lot, and many colonists out here aren't human at all.
Anarchists, brinkers, and desperados comprise most
of the population.

GLITCH
This habitat has the highest population density in the
system, with 20,000 infomorphs living in a meshed
cluster of twenty spherical structures that are 10
meters in diameter, powered by efficient central re-
actor systems. The habitat is attended by a cloud of
factories, harvesters, and defense satellites that occupy
considerably more space than the station itself. Various
rumors circulate that the inhabitants are researching
methods to improve infomorphs in the manner of seed
AIs, or that they are engaged in some vast forecasting
simulation effort.

ILMARINEN
Aligned with the argonauts, Ilmarinen is a hybrid
beehive/cluster dug into and partially protruding
from the large L4 asteroid Greymere. It is the largest
habitat in Neptune's Trojans, with a population of
