7,000. Like many transhumans this far out in space,
most of Ilmarinen's inhabitants are heavily modified
or inhabit exotic morphs. Vacuum and cold tolerant
morphs prevail, and many sections of the habitat are
unlivable for baseline transhumans.

MAHOGANY
The neo-avians who built this station threw away
the manual on habitat design and revisited the long-
out of favor toroidal configuration. The result is a
disc habitat—a plate half a kilometer along the edge
and one kilometer in diameter, resembling a slice
of an O'Neill cylinder with no windows. A fusion-
powered, low-heat, axial light source nourishes
the verdant hardwood forest below. Structures are
built into the disc walls up to 500 meters in height.
The disc, mostly woven from carbon fibers, rotates
quickly enough to generate 0.5 g at the habitat floor.
Mahogany has a population of 4,000 mercurials,
most of them neo-avians.

MINOR MOONS
Neptune's other twelve moons are largely small
bodies, icy and sparsely (if at all) populated. Proteus
and Larissa, both sizable and relatively close to the
planet, host small populations. Naiad and Thalassa
are tiny but very close to the planet, and thus home to
some atmospheric skimming operations. Neso, orbit-
ing at about 1/3 AU from Neptune, has never been
visited—even by robotic probes.

NEPTUNIAN TROJANS
Trailing and preceding Neptune at the L4 and L5
points of its orbit are several hundred asteroids of
diverse, mostly icy composition. Neptune's Trojans
are home to brinkers, hard-bitten prospectors, exotic
exhumans, and other extreme survivalists.

TRITON
Neptune's largest moon has a tenuous atmosphere and
is chemically complex, composed of equal parts rock
and ices (frozen nitrogen, water, and carbon dioxyde).
It is also geologically active, with cryovolcanoes con-
tinually resurfacing the planet. The surface has few
inhabitants but several habitats orbit here, using the
moon's abundant raw materials and low escape veloc-
ity to their advantage.

THE EDGE OF THE SYSTEM
Beyond Neptune lie only dwarf planets and icy aster-
oids waiting to become comets, roughly divided into
two regions: the Kuiper Belt, from 30 to 55 AU from
the Sun, and the Scattered Disk, which extends from
55 AU out to the Oort Cloud. Pluto, its binary object
Charon, and Eris have compositions similar to Triton.
A few small habitats orbit Pluto and Charon, eking
out a living by prospecting for volatiles. A number of
other dwarf planets orbit in the Kuiper belt and the
Disk, including Orcus, Senda, and 2000 OO67. Of
these, only Eris harbors a substantial population.
ERIS
Located at 55 AU from the sun at the edge of the
Scattered Disk, Eris is the largest dwarf planet in the
system and the site of a grim struggle between two of
transhumanity's most militant factions: ultimates and
exhumans. The focal point of the struggle is Discord
Gate, the most remote of the system's publicly-known
Pandora Gates, located in an icy labyrinth half a kilo-
meter beneath the surface of Eris.
   The brief history of the gate is bloody. Go-nin
Group troops violently wrested control of the gate
from the Ilmarinen anarchists who discovered it. Titan
and several anarchist and brinker groups both tried
to dislodge Go-nin, but these attempts failed, at great
cost in lives and ships. Go-nin's control of the gate
seemed ensured until the hypercorp apparently tam-
pered too heavily with the gate's black box controls.
A devastating explosion ensued, all but wiping out the
gate and Go-nin base. The gate, however, restructured
itself over the course of several days, though its loca-
tion has now shifted to the bottom of a melted crater.
   In the short period it took the Go-nin Group to hire
a group of ultimate mercenaries to retake the gate, a
hitherto unknown force of exhumans had seized the
area. The ultimates succeeded, but a group of exhumans
escaped through the gate. Go-nin now has nominal
control of the Discord Gate through the ultimates, who
maintain a heavily militarized base on Eris's moon,
Dysnomia. However, in recent years the gate facility has
suffered several attacks by exhumans eager to infiltrate
the gate—and according to rumors, at least one of those
attacks originated from the gate itself.

MARKOV
The location of this habitat, a major stronghold of
the argonauts, is a closely guarded secret. Attempts to
search it out have revealed only decoys or lifeless rocks.
Though a great deal of information is available about
the habitat's specs, operations, areas of research, and
informational resources, only highly placed members
of the argonauts may travel here. By all accounts, the
habitat is a windowless beehive, designed to be virtually
emissionless. Speculated locations include Pluto's moon
Hydra, the deep Kuiper Belt, and even the Oort Cloud.

EXTRASOLAR SYSTEMS
Although travel between the stars is still outside the
realm of transhumanity's achievements, the Pandora
Gates have allowed passage to myriad other star sys-
tems. A few are noted here, though many more exist—
not all of them explored.

ECHO
Echo is a binary system consisting of a bright orange
main sequence star and a pulsar (whence the system's
name) about 12 light hours from one another. The
system has one immense, bright yellow Jovian world
(Echo VI) weighing in at 1.8 Jupiter masses and boast-
ing 101 known moons, two Neptune-like ice giants
further out, a thin mid-system asteroid belt, and several
Mercury-like inner planets.
