   The original Pandora Gate opens onto lifeless Echo V, a forbid-
ding place littered with the detritus of a dead alien civilization. The
hollow buildings of these precursors look out over once-verdant
alluvial plains now home to only dry arroyos and dust. In other
places, eons of wind erosion have carried the soil away entirely,
leaving only barren expanses of dark basaltic slag. Chemically and
geologically, the world is very similar to Mars, had Mars suffered
another half a billion years' loss of atmosphere. Research into the
relics of the long-dead aliens suggests that they were morphologi-
cally similar to arthropods or arachnids, earning them the designa-
tion of Iktomi, after a Native American spider god. So far, little else
has been discerned about them.
   Echo IV, on the other hand, is the closest thing transhumanity
has found to a paradise since losing Earth. The native life is carbon-
based, with many plants and fish edible even to flats. The climate is
warm temperate, the atmosphere breathable with no major contam-
inants. The northern and southern latitudes are home to trackless
forests dominated by various species of valders—huge, maple-like
trees with dark red leaves. In the equatorial regions lie balmy, nutri-
ent-rich floodplains ripe for cultivation, broken up by the occasional
mountain range. Echo IV is still geologically active due to tidal heat-
ing, though older than Earth by about two billions years, and has
two megacontinents connected near the equator by a tenuous land
bridge. Notable native life include the Unagi, a fearsome, eel-like
deep sea predator, and the clown sprite, a flying primate-analog that
exists in a symbiotic relationship with the Echolalian land anenome,
a huge, venomous, carnivorous plant that grows in the cloud forests
of the equatorial highlands. The biosphere is diverse with many
other megafauna, some quite dangerous.

LUCA
Luca is an M-Class red dwarf located in a region of the galaxy
far removed from any point of reference known to transhuman
astronomy. The system has only a single gas giant of about 1.4 Ju-
piter masses—insufficient to shield the inner worlds from constant
asteroid bombardment. The lone gas giant is flanked by a tenuous
metallic inner asteroid belt and a wide ice and silicate outer belt.
The only other bodies worthy of planetary status are a hellish inner
world with Mercury's richness of metal and Venus' infernal atmo-
sphere and a few large, sullen plutoids sharing Lagrange orbits with
an asteroid field comprised of the shattered mass of a third plutoid.
   Accessible by both the Vulcanoid and Fissure Gates, Luca II is a
heavily cratered terrestrial planet with a thick, dusty atmosphere—
just about breathable to transhumans with the right gear. It is a cold,
rocky world of craggy hills, knee-high forests, hissing geothermal
bogs, and fungal meadows. The natives, who have been extinct for at
least a million years, evolved from animals not unlike Earth's aard-
varks. Originally insect mound predators, the Lucans evolved vision
well into the infrared (as demonstrated by the unusual pigments on
their pottery and later-stage porcelain) and, based on analysis of their
artifacts, had a sense akin to ultrasonic imaging. Their civilization
went through several cycles of rise and fall, punctuated by celestial
cataclysms that killed off less adaptable species and made resources
scarce. The Lucans seem never to have evolved past medieval levels
of societal organization prior to the Great Impact. Within a hundred
years of that final impact, the last of the Lucans perished, never
having invented the telescope, the computer, or space flight.
   Luca II hosts Banshee, an underground settlement with a few
prominent surface features, including a radio astronomy station,
park domes, a short-hop aerospace port, and solar farms. It is set on
