the Howling Plain, a windy plain of scrub brush and
bogs chosen for its rich hydrocarbon deposits and low
incidence of asteroid impacts. Banshee is an uneasy
blend of anarchist colonists and hypercorp interests.

MISHIPIZHEU
Mishipizheu is a red giant. The planet from which
the star takes its name, Mishipizheu I, is a Mars-sized
sphere of water with an atmosphere of nitrogen and
carbon dioxide and a rocky core. Mishipizheu I was
an almost Venus-sized sphere of ice 700 million years
ago, but the expansion of its star into the red giant
phase melted the planet. Initially quite warm and full
of pockets of ice and carbonaceous silts, the melting
planet was a crucible in which life could develop and
now hosts a complex ecosystem. Amoeboid boiler
reefs composed of gas sac creatures and their symbi-
otes bob on the surface or maintain neutral buoyancy
in the depths, becoming platforms for complex ecosys-
tems of largely animalian life.
   Mishipizheu I is orbited by a mid-size rocky moon,
Nanabozho, reachable via the Discord Gate. Nanabo-
zho is a mystery, as moons of this composition are
not normally found so far out in a system. The best
current theory is that Nanabozho was an inner system
object with an erratic orbit. It was perturbed out of
its orbit by one of the now-engulfed gas giants that
must once have existed, whence by chance it was
captured in Mishipizheu's orbit. The extraordinarily
slim chances of such an event, however, have led to
wild speculation as to the actual origin of the moon,
which is as popular a destination for gatecrashers as
the planet below.

SYNERGY
Among the first attempts to establish a gatecrasher
colony beyond the original Pandora Gate, just 5 years
after the Fall, was a group of two hundred and fifty
colonists equipped with experimental headware com-
munications technology. Shortly after the jump, how-
ever, a still unidentified glitch forced the gate to close
and the mechanism could not be reset to the same set-
ting and coordinates for an entire five years. When the
gate technicians finally managed to reacquire the set-
tings recently and reopen the gate, the colonists were
found to have survived, but they had changed. The
technology sent with them was largely AI controlled,
enabling the creation of a hypermesh that linked the
thoughts, emotions, and sensory experiences of each
colonist with each other. After half a decade of dif-
ficult survival measures, this technology and the stress
of the situation linked the colonists and their AIs into
a group mind. Despite having the opportunity to
return to the solar system, these Synergists, as they
call themselves, have no desire to cut themselves off
from their shared consciousness.

OTHER EXOPLANETS
The number of extraterrestrial star systems that trans-
humanity has visited via the gates now numbers into
the hundreds, if not more—though only a small per-
centage of these have been notable and/or hospitable.
Only a few dozen have been substantially occupied
or colonized by transhumans, though this number is
growing rapidly. Among these, a few deserve mention:
   Arcadia: Accessed through the Martian Gate, the
Planetary Consortium is constructing an aerostat in
the upper atmosphere of this Venus-like planet which
will serve as a private resort for the hyperelite.
   Babylon: Initially thought to just be an unremark-
able scorched moon orbiting a planet very close to a
yellow star, researchers measuring the star made an
incredible accident discovery: what appears to be a
derelict spacecraft orbiting deep in the star's corona.
Attempts to access this vessel have so far been thwart-
ed, but other projects are in the works, including the
possibility of towing the craft to safer climes.
   Bluewood: One of the first anarchist colonies es-
tablished through the Fissure Gate, this settlement
inhabits a beautiful, small Earth-like world with a
thriving eco-system. Established on the outskirts of
a large forest of eerie, alien, blue “trees,” the colony
was taken off-guard by the trees alarming growth
rate. The modular settlement buildings have all but
been surrounded and encased by overgrowth despite
modest efforts to keep them clear. Still intact but en-
gulfed by spiraling branchworks, the effect is beautiful
and haunting.
   Nótt: This barren ice-covered moon suffers from
heavy geothermal activity that causes its frozen crust to
constantly crack and refreeze. The unfortunate research
station staff here, all indentured, claim that something
out in the ice is stalking them—over a dozen have dis-
appeared in the last year. Pathfinder refuses to pull the
station back, however, and thorough searches from its
security teams have turned up nothing.
   Sky Ark: TerraGenesis is redesigning this dry, arid
moonlet as an offworld preserve for animal life,
including many formerly extinct Earth species resur-
rected from fossil DNA.
   Wormwood: This maze-like warren seems to be an
actual beehive habitat, though who tunneled it out
or why remains an unanswered mystery. The former
asteroid is part of the ring system of an unknown gas
giant. Clearly artificial, gatecrashers so far have found
no signs of technology or life.




ANALYSIS: MYST TREES
                [File Corruption: 98%]
                [Partial Retrieval Complete]
                … called “myst trees” by the residen@#
                of Ca*&78 … also found on tw) oth*r
                exoplanets ]]]]] … seem to be some sort of
                living data storage{{[— … utilizing nanofog
                systems for <|{9h'''' … high pr@bability of
                alien origin [[[[[[; ;
