ICS■GAME MECHANICS■GAME MECHA



MECHANICS
 In every game, there comes a time when the gamemas-
 ter must decide if a character succeeds or fails in an
 action. This is when the players roll dice and the char-
 acters' stats and abilities come into play. This chapter
 defines the core mechanics and rules that govern the
 outcomes of events in Eclipse Phase.

 THE ULTIMATE RULE
 One rule in Eclipse Phase outweighs all of the others:
 have fun. This means that you should never let the
 rules get in the way of the game. If you don't like a
 rule, change it. If you can't find a rule, make one up.
 If you disagree over a rule's interpretation, flip a coin.
 Try not to let rules interfere with the game's flow and
 mood. If you're in the middle of a really good scene
 or intense roleplaying and a rule suddenly comes into
 question, don't stop the game to look it up and argue
 about it. Just wing it, make a decision quickly, and
 move on. You can always look the rule up later so
 you'll remember it next time. If there are disagree-
 ments over a rule's interpretation, remember that the
 gamemaster gets the final say.
    This rule also means that you shouldn't let the story
 be guided solely by rolls of the dice. The element of
 chance that dice rolls provide lends a sense of random-
 ness, uncertainty, and surprise to the game. Sometimes
 this is exciting, like when a character makes an un-
 expectedly difficult roll and saves the day. At other
 times, it is brutal, such as when a lucky shot from an
 opponent takes one of the characters out for good in a
 fight. If the gamemaster wants a scenario to result in a
 pre-planned dramatic outcome and an unexpected die
 roll threatens that plan, they should feel free to ignore
 that roll and move the story in the direction they desire.

 DICE
 Eclipse Phase uses two ten-sided dice (each noted as
 a d10) for random rolls. In most cases, the rules will
 call for a percentile roll, noted as d100, meaning that




 A NOTE ON TERMINOLO
 The Eclipse Phase setting raises a number of intere
 What does it mean when you are born female but y
 guage and editing, this also poses a number of intere
 language has a bit of a bias towards male-gendered
   For purposes of this game, we've sidestepped som
 the “Singular They” rule. What this means is that r
 switching between gendered pronouns (“he” in one
 of “they” even when referring to a single person. To
 some good evidence that this usage has strong hist
 tors fewer headaches.
   When referring to specific characters, we use th
 personal gender identity, no matter the sex of the m
ICS■GAME MECHANICS■GAME MECHA
                   GAME

                                                                 4




   you roll two ten-sided dice, choosing one to count first,
   and then read them as a result between 0 and 99 (with
   a roll of 00 counting as zero, not 100). The first die
   counts as the tens digit, and the second die counts as
   the ones digit. For example, you roll two ten-sided
   dice, one red and one black, calling out red first. The
   red one rolls a 1 and the black die rolls a 6, for a result
   of 16. Some sets of d10s, as shown above, are specifi-
   cally marked for easier rolling and reading.
      Occasionally the rules will call for individual die
   rolls, with each individual ten-sided die listed as a d10.
   If the rules call for several dice to be rolled, it will be
   noted as 2d10, 3d10, and so on. When multiple ten-
   sided dice are rolled in these instances, the results are
   added together. For example, a 3d10 roll of 4, 6, and
   7 counts as 17. On d10 rolls, a result of 0 is treated as
   a 10, not a zero.
      Most players of Eclipse Phase can get by with
   having two ten-sided dice, but it doesn't hurt to
   have more on hand. These dice can be purchased
   at your friendly local game store or borrowed from
   another gamer.




 Y AND GENDER
 g questions about gender and personal identity.
are occupying a male body? When it comes to lan-
ng questions for what pronouns to use. The English
 nouns that we hope to avoid in these rules.
 f these gender neutrality quandaries by adopting
 er than just going with male pronouns (“he”) or
apter, “she” in the next), we have adopted the use
me folks, this is bad grammar, but there is actually
 al roots (look it up), and it certainly gives our edi-

endered pronoun appropriate to the character's
ph they are in.                            ■
