MAKING TESTS
In Eclipse Phase, your character is bound to find
themself in adrenalin-pumping action scenes, high-
stress social situations, lethal combats, spine-tingling
investigations, and similar situations filled with drama,
risk, and adventure. When your character is embroiled
in these scenarios, you determine how well they do by
making tests—rolling dice to determine if they succeed
or fail, and to what degree.
  You make tests in Eclipse Phase by rolling d100 and
comparing the result to a target number. The target
number is typically determined by one of your char-
acter's skills (discussed below) and ranges between 1
and 98. If you roll less than or equal to the target
number, you succeed. If you roll higher than the target
number, you fail.
   A roll of 00 is always considered a success. A roll of
99 is always a failure.


           Jaqui's character needs to make a skill test. Her
 EXAMPLE




           skill is 55. Jaqui takes two ten-sided dice and
           rolls a 53—she succeeds! If she had rolled a 55,
           she still would have been successful, but any roll
           higher than that would have been a failure.


TARGET NUMBERS
As noted above, the target number for a d100 roll in
Eclipse Phase is usually the skill rating. Occasionally,
however, a different figure will be used. In some cases,
an aptitude score is used, which makes for much
harder tests as aptitude scores are usually well below
50 (see Aptitudes, p. 123). In other tests, the target
number will be an aptitude rating x 2 or x 3 or two
aptitudes added together. In these cases, the test de-
scription will note what rating(s) to use.

WHEN TO MAKE TESTS
The gamemaster decides when a character must make
a test. As a rule of thumb, tests are called for when-
ever there is a chance that a character might fail at an
action or when success or failure may have an effect
on the ongoing story. Tests are also called for when-
ever two or more characters act in opposition to one
another (for example, if they are arm wrestling or hag-
gling over a price). On the other hand, routine use of
a skill by someone with at least a rating of 30 in that
skill can be assumed to be successful with no test.
   It is not necessary to make tests for everyday, run-
of-the-mill activities, such as getting dressed or check-
ing your email (especially in Eclipse Phase, where so
many activities are automatically handled by the ma-
chines around you). Even an activity such as driving
a car does not call for dice rolls as long as you have
a small modicum of skill. A test might be necessary,
however, if you happen to be driving while bleeding
to death or are pursuing a gang of motorcycle-riding
scavengers through the ruins of a devastated city.
   Knowing when to call for tests and when to let the
roleplaying flow without interruption is a skill every
gamemaster must acquire. Sometimes it is better to
simply make a call without rolling dice in order to
maintain the pacing of the game. Likewise, in certain
circumstances the gamemaster may decide to make tests
for a character in secret, without the player noticing. If
an enemy is trying to sneak past a character on guard,
for example, the gamemaster will alert the player that
something is amiss if they ask them to make a perception
test. This means that the gamemaster should keep a copy
of each character's record sheet on hand at all times.

DIFFICULTY AND MODIFIERS
The measure of a test's diffi-
culty is reflected in its modifiers.
Modifiers are adjustments made
                                                    TEST DI
to the target number (not the           DIFFICULTY LEVEL
roll), either raising or lowering       Effortless
it. A test of average difficulty
                                        Simple
will have no modifiers, whereas
actions that are easier will have       Easy
positive modifiers (raising the         Average
target number, making success           Difficult
more likely) and harder ac-
                                        Challenging
tions will have negative modi-
fiers (lowering the target number,      Hard
making success less likely). It is
the gamemaster's job to deter-
mine if a particular test is harder             MODIFIER
or easier than normal and to
                                        SEVERITY
what degree (as illustrated on the
Test Difficulty table) and to then      Minor
apply the appropriate modifier.         Moderate
   Other factors might also play a      Major
role in a test, applying additional
modifiers aside from the test's
general level of difficulty. These factors include the en-
vironment, equipment (or lack thereof), and the health
of the character, among other things. The character
might be using superior tools, working in poor condi-
tions, or even wounded, and each of these factors must
be taken into account, applying additional modifiers
to the target number and adjusting the likelihood of
success or failure.
   For simplicity, modifiers are applied in multiples of
10 and come in three levels of severity: Minor (+/–10),
Moderate (+/–20), and Major (+/–30). Any number of
modifiers may be applied, as the gamemaster deems
appropriate, but the cumulative modifiers may not
exceed + or – 60.


  Jaqui is attempting to leap from one door to an-
  other across a large chamber in zero gravity. She's
  in a hurry. If she misses the door, she'll lose valu-
                                                            EXAMPLE




  able time, so the gamemaster calls for a Freefall
  Skill Test. Jaqui's Freefall skill is 46. Unfortunately
  the chamber is filled with floating debris that could
  get in her way. The gamemaster determines this is
  a Moderate modifier, reducing the target number
  by 20. Jaqui must roll a 26 or less to succeed.
