SIMPLIFYING
MODIFIERS
Rather than looking up and accumulating a
long list of modifiers for each action and doing
the math, the gamemaster can instead choose
to simply “eyeball” the situation and apply the
modifier that best sums up the net effect. This
method is quicker and allows for easier test
resolution. One way to eyeball the situation is
to simply apply the most severe modifier affect-
ing the situation.


           Tyska is trying to escape from some thing that's
           chasing him through a derelict habitat. The
           gamemaster calls for a Freerunning Test, but
           there are a number of modifying conditions: it's
 EXAMPLE




           dark, he's running with a flashlight, and there's
           debris everywhere. Tyska, however, has an en-
           toptic map of the best route out of there to help
           him out. The gamemaster assesses the situation
           and decides the overall effect is that the test is
           challenging, and so a –20 modifier is applied.


NARRATIVE MODIFIERS
If you wish to develop a more cinematic feel for
your game, or if you simply wish to encourage
your players to invest more detail and creativ-
ity into the storyline, you can award “narrative
modifiers” to a character's test when that player
describes what the character is doing in excep-
tionally colorful, inventive, or dramatic detail.
The better the detail, the better the modifier.


           Cole doesn't just want his character to jump over
           the table, he wants to make an impact. Cole tells
           the gamemaster that his character kicks a chair
           out of the way, rolls over the dinner table on
 EXAMPLE




           his shoulder, grabs a fork as he does it, makes
           sure to knock all of the fine china on the floor,
           then lands on his feet in a defensive martial
           arts posture, fork raised high. The gamemaster
           decides the extra description is worth +10 to his
           Freerunning Test.




CRITICALS: ROLLING DOUBLES
Any time both dice come up with the same number—
00, 11, 22, 33, 44, etc.—you have scored a critical
success or critical failure, depending on whether your
roll also beat your target number. 00 is always a
critical success, whereas 99 is always a critical failure.
Rolling doubles means that a little something extra
happened with the outcome of the test, either positive
or negative. Criticals have a very specific application
in combat tests (see p. 192), but for all other purposes
the gamemaster decides what exactly went wrong or
right in a specific situation. Criticals can be used to
amplify a success or failure: you finish with a flour-
ish or fail so spectacularly that you remain the butt
of jokes for weeks to come. They can also result in
some sort of unexpected secondary effect: you repair
the device and improve its performance; or you fail
to shoot your enemy and hit an innocent bystander.
Alternately, a critical can be used to give a boost (or
a hindrance) to a follow-up action. For example, you
not only spot a clue, but you immediately suspect it
to be red herring; or you not only fail to strike the
target, but your weapon breaks, leaving you defense-
less. Gamemasters are encouraged to be inventive with
their use of criticals and choose results that create
comedy, drama, or tension.


  Audrey is attempting to intimidate a low-level
  triad mook into giving her information. Unfortu-
  nately she rolls a 99—a critical failure. Not only
  does she fail to scare the guy, but she accidentally
                                                          EXAMPLE




  lets slip an important piece of information that she
  didn't want the triad to know. If she rolled a 00
  instead—a critical success—she would browbeat
  the man so thoroughly that he throws in some
  extra important information just so she'll leave
  him alone in the future.


DEFAULTING: UNTRAINED SKILL USE
Certain tests may call for a character to use a skill they
don't have—a process called defaulting. In this case,
the character instead uses the rating of the aptitude
(see p. 123) that is linked to the skill in question as the
target number.
   Not all skills may be defaulted; some of them are
so complex or require such training than an unskilled
character can't hope to succeed. Skills that may not be
defaulted on are noted on the Skill List (p. 176) and in
the skill description.
   In rare cases, a gamemaster might allow a character
to default to another skill that also relates to a test
(see p. 173). When allowed, defaulting to another skill
incurs a –30 modifier.


  Toljek is trying to casually sneak inside a hyper-
  corp facility when he unexpectedly runs into a
  hypercorp employee. The woman he's encountered
  doesn't necessarily have grounds to be suspicious
                                                          EXAMPLE




  of Toljek's presence, but the gamemaster calls for
  Toljek to make a Protocol Test to pass himself off as
  someone that belongs there. Unfortunately, Toljek
  doesn't have that skill, so he must default to its
  linked aptitude, Savvy, instead. His Savvy score is
  only 18, so Toljek better hope he gets lucky.
