TEAMWORK
If two or more characters join forces to tackle a test
together, one of the characters must be chosen as the
primary actor. This leading character will usually (but
not always) be the one with the highest applicable
skill. The primary acting character is the one who
rolls the test, though they receive a +10 modifier for
each additional character helping them out, up to a
maximum +30 modifier. Note that helping characters
do not necessarily need to know the skill being used
if the gamemaster decides that they can follow the
primary actor's lead.


           The robotic leg on Eva's synthetic morph has been
 EXAMPLE




           badly damaged, so she needs to repair it. Max and
           Vic both sit down and help her out, giving her a
           +20 modifier (+10 for each helper) to her Hard-
           ware: Robotics Test.




TYPES OF TESTS
  There are two types of tests in Eclipse Phase: Suc-
cess and Opposed.

SUCCESS TESTS
Success Tests are called for whenever a character is
acting without direct opposition. They are the stan-
dard tests used to determine how well a character
exercises a particular skill or ability.
   Success Tests are handled exactly as described under
Making Tests, p. 115. The player rolls d100 against a
target number equal to the character's skill +/– modi-
fiers. If they roll equal to or less than the target number,
the test succeeds, and the action is completed as desired.
If they roll higher than the target number, the test fails.

TRYING AGAIN
If you fail at a test, you can take another shot. Each
subsequent attempt at an action after a failure, how-
ever, incurs a cumulative –10 modifier. That means the
second try suffers –10, the third –20, the fourth –30,
and so on, up to the maximum –60.

TAKING THE TIME
Most skill tests are made for Automatic, Quick, or
Complex Actions (see pp. 119–120) and so are re-
solved within one Action Turn (3 seconds, see p. 119).
Tests made for Task actions (p. 120) take longer.
  Players may choose to take extra time when their
character undertakes an action, meaning that they
choose to be especially careful when performing the
action in order to enhance their chance of success. For
every minute of extra time they take, they increase
their target number by +10. Once they've modified
their target number to over 99, they are practically as-
sured of success, so the gamemaster can waive the dice
roll and grant them an automatic success. Note that
the maximum +60 modifier rule still applies, so if their
