skill is under 40 to start with, taking the time may still
not guarantee a favorable outcome. You may take the
time even when defaulting (see Defaulting, p. 116).
   Taking extra time is a solid choice when time is not
a factor to the character, as it eliminates the chance
that a critical failure will be rolled and allows the
player to skip needless dice rolling. For certain tests it
may not be appropriate, however, if the gamemaster
decides that no amount of extra time will increase the
likelihood of success. In that case, the gamemaster
simply rules that taking the time has no effect.
   For Task action tests (p. 120), which already take
time to complete, the duration of the task must be
increased by 50 percent for each +10 modifier gained
for taking extra time.


           Srit is searching through an abandoned space-
           ship, looking for a sign of what happened to the
           missing crew. The gamemaster tells her it will take
 EXAMPLE




           twenty minutes to search the whole ship. She
           wants to be extra thorough, however, so she takes
           an extra thirty minutes. Fifty percent of the original
           timeframe is ten minutes, so taking an extra thirty
           minutes means that Srit receives a +30 modifier to
           her Investigation Test.


SIMPLE SUCCESS TESTS
In some circumstances, the gamemaster may not be
concerned that a character might fail a test, but instead
simply wants to gauge how well the character per-
forms. In this case, the gamemaster calls for a Simple
Success Test, which is handled just like a standard
Success Test (p. 117). Rather than determining suc-
cess or failure, however, the test is assumed to succeed.
The roll determines whether the character succeeds
strongly (rolls equal to or less than the target number)
or succeeds weakly (rolls above the target number).


           Dav is taking a short spacewalk between two
           parked ships. The gamemaster determines that this
           is a routine operation and calls for Dav to make a
           Simple Success Test using the Freefall skill. Dav's
 EXAMPLE




           skill is only 35. He rolls a 76, but the gamemaster
           merely determines that Dav has some trouble
           orienting himself and has to take some extra time.
           If Dav had rolled a 77—a critical failure—his suit's
           maneuvering jets may have died and he may have
           accidentally propelled himself into deep space.


MARGIN OF SUCCESS/FAILURE
Sometimes it may be important that a character not
only succeeds, but that they kick ass and take names
while doing it. This is usually true of situations where
the challenge is not only difficult but the action must
be pulled off with finesse. Tests of this sort may call
for a certain Margin of Success (MoS)—an amount by
which the character must roll under the target number.
For example, a character facing a target number of 55
and a MoS of 20 must roll equal to or less than a 35
to succeed at the level the situation calls for.


  An enemy has thrown an incendiary device near
  Stoya. She has only a moment to act and decides
  to try to kick it away from herself. Even better, she
  hopes to kick it into the open maintenance hatch
  a dozen meters away. The gamemaster determines
  that in order to kick it into the hatch, Stoya needs
  to succeed with an MoS of 30. Her Unarmed




                                                           EXAMPLE
  Combat skill is 66, so Stoya needs to roll 66 or
  less to kick the device away (though she may still
  be damaged when it explodes), and 36 or less to
  kick it into the hatch (in which case she will be
  completely safe when it detonates). She rolls a
  44—missing the hatch, but scoring a critical suc-
  cess! Her aim is off, but the gamemaster decides
  that the device rebounds off some machinery and
  falls into the hatch anyway.


  At other times, it may be important to know how
badly a character fails, as determined by a Margin
of Failure (MoF), which is the amount by which the
character rolled over the target number. In some cases,
a test may note that a character who fails with a
certain MoF may suffer additional consequences for
failing so dismally.


  Nico is trying to sketch out a picture of someone's
  face. He has eidetic memory, but his drawing needs
  to be good enough for someone else to identify the
                                                           EXAMPLE




  person. He rolls against his Art: Drawing skill of 34,
  scoring a 97—a MoF of 63. The illustration is so
  bad that the gamemaster determines that anyone
  using that picture to identify the person will need
  to score a MoS of at least 63 on a Perception Test
  to recognize the person.


EXCELLENT SUCCESSES/SEVERE FAILURES
Excellent Successes and Severe Failures are a method
used to benchmark successes and failures with an
MoS or MoF of 30+. Excellent Successes are used in
situations where an especially good roll may boost the
intended effect, such as inflicting more damage with
a good hit in combat. Severe Failures denote a roll
that is particularly bad and has a worse effect than a
simple failure. Neither Excellent Successes or Severe
Failures are as good or bad as criticals, however.


  Stoya has been caught in a deal gone bad. She
  moves to kick her opponent using her Unarmed
  Combat of 65. She rolls a 33 (for an MoS of 32),
                                                           EXAMPLE




  and her opponent rolls a 21 (also successful, but
  less than Stoya, so she wins). She has succeeded
  and beaten her opponent with an MoS of 30+,
  scoring an Excellent Success, meaning she will
  inflict extra damage with the kick.
