OPPOSED TESTS
An Opposed Test is called for whenever a character's
action may be directly opposed by another. Regardless
of who initiates the action, both characters must make
a test against each other, with the outcome favoring
the winner.
   To make an Opposed Test, each character rolls
d100 against a target number equal to the relevant
skill(s) along with any appropriate modifiers. If only
one of the characters succeeds (rolls equal to or less
than their target number), that character has won.
If both succeed, the character who gets the highest
dice roll wins. If both characters fail, or they both
succeed and roll the same number, then a deadlock
occurs—the characters remain pitted against each
other, neither gaining ground, until one of them takes
another action and either breaks away or makes an-
other Opposed Test.
   Note that critical successes trump high rolls in an
Opposed Test—if both characters succeed and one rolls
54 while the other rolls 44, the critical roll of 44 wins.
   Care must be taken when applying modifiers in an
Opposed Test. Some modifiers will affect both partici-
pants equally, and should be applied to both tests. If
a modifier arises from one character's advantage in
relation to the other, however, that modifier should
only be applied to benefit the favored character; it
should not also be applied as a negative modifier to
the disadvantaged character.


           Zhou has been hired by the Jovian Republic to
           infiltrate his old pirate band. Even though he's
           resleeved in a new skin, he's worried that one of
           his old buddies, Wen, might recognize his manner-
           isms, since they lived, whored, and raided together
           for years. After Zhou has spent some time in Wen's
           company, the gamemaster makes a secret Opposed
           Test, pitting Zhou's Impersonation skill of 57 against
 EXAMPLE




           Wen's Kinesics of 34. The gamemaster decides to
           give Wen a bonus +20, since he is so familiar with
           his former buddy and has been on the lookout for
           him, eager to repay the old grudge that split them
           apart. Wen's target number is now 54.
              The gamemaster rolls for both. Zhou scores a 45
           and Wen a 39. Both succeed, but Zhou rolled higher,
           so his deception is successful. The gamemaster
           decides that Wen finds something about Zhou to
           be familiar, but he can't put his finger on it.




OPPOSED TESTS AND MARGIN OF SUCCESS/FAILURE
In some cases, it may also be important to note a char-
acter's Margin of Success or Failure in an Opposed
Test, as with a Success Test above. In this case, the
MoS/MoF is still determined by the difference between
the character's roll and their target number—it is not
calculated by the difference between the character's
roll and the opposing character's roll.
VARIABLE OPPOSED TEST
In some cases, the rules will call for a Variable Op-
posed Test, which allows for slightly more outcomes
than a standard Opposed Test. If both characters
succeed in a Variable Opposed Test, then an outcome
is obtained which is different from just one character
winning over the other. The exact outcomes are noted
with each specific Variable Opposed Test.


  Jaqui needs to hack into a local network to
  retrieve some video footage. The network is ac-
  tively defended by an AI, so a Variable Opposed

                                                            EXAMPLE
  Test is called for, pitting Jaqui's Infosec skill of 48
  against the AI's Infosec of 25. Jaqui rolls a 48—a
  success—but the AI rolls a 14—also a success. In
  this circumstance, Jaqui succeeds in hacking in,
  but the AI is aware of the infiltration and can take
  active countermeasures against her.




TIME AND ACTIONS
  Though the gamemaster is responsible for manag-
ing the speed at which events unfold, there are times
when it is important to know exactly who is acting
when, especially if some people are acting before or
after other people. In these circumstances, gameplay
in Eclipse Phase is broken down into intervals called
Action Turns.

ACTION TURNS
Each Action Turn is three seconds long, meaning
there are twenty Action Turns per minute. The order
in which characters act during a turn is determined
by an Initiative Test (see Initiative, p. 121). Action
Turns are further subdivided into Action Phases. Each
character's Speed stat (p. 121) determines the amount
of actions they can take in a turn, represented by how
many Action Phases they may take.

TYPES OF ACTIONS
The types of actions a character may take in an Action
Turn are broken down to: Automatic, Quick, Com-
plex, and Task actions.

AUTOMATIC ACTIONS
Automatic actions are “always on” and require no
effort from the character, assuming they are conscious.
   Examples: basic perception, certain psi sleights

QUICK ACTIONS
Quick actions are simple, so they can be done fast and
can be multi-tasked. The gamemaster determines how
many Quick actions a character may take in a turn.
  Examples: talking, switching a safety, activating an
implant, standing up
