COMPLEX ACTIONS
Complex actions require concent
effort. The number of Complex
character may take per turn is de
by their Speed stat (see p. 121).
  Examples: attacking, shooting, a
disarming a bomb, detailed examin

TASK ACTIONS
Task actions are any actions tha
longer than one Action Turn to
Each Task action has a timeframe
listed in the task description or o
determined by the gamemaster. T
frame determines how long the t
to complete, though this may be re
10 percent for every 10 full point
the character scores on the test (se
of Success/Failure, p. 118). If a
fails on a Task action test roll, th
on the task for a minimum period
10 percent of the timeframe for ea
points of MoF before realizing it's
   For Task actions with timefram
day or longer, it is assumed that th
ter only works eight hours per da
acter that works more hours per
reduce the time accordingly. Ch
working on Task actions may a
rupt their work to do something
then pick up where they left off, u
gamemaster rules that the action
continuous and uninterrupted atte
   Similar to taking the time (p
character may rush the job on a Ta
taking a penalty on the test in or
crease the timeframe. The charac
declare they are rushing the job be
roll the test. For every 10 percent
to reduce the timeframe, they inc
modifier on the test (to a maximu
tion of 60 percent with a maximum
of –60).



DEFINING YOUR CHARA
In order to gauge and quantify w
character is merely good at and w
excel in—or what they are cluele
and suck at—Eclipse Phase uses
of measurement factors: stats, sk
and morphs. Each of these chara
is recorded and tracked on your c
record sheet (p. 399).

CONCEPT
Your character concept defines wh
in the Eclipse Phase universe. You'r
a run-of-the-mill plebeian with a b
           mundane life, you're a participant in a post-
on or      apocalyptic transhuman future who gets
ons a      caught up in intrigue, terrible danger, un-
mined      speakable horrors, and scrambling for sur-
           vival. Much like a character in an adventure,
batics,    drama, or horror story, you are a person
on         to whom interesting things happen—or if
           not, you make them happen. This means
           your character needs a distinct personality
 quire     and sense of identity. At the very least, you
 plete.    should be able to sum up your character
sually     concept in a single sentence, such as “cantan-
 rwise     kerous neotenic renegade archaeologist with
  time-    anger management issues” or “thrill-seeking
 takes     social animal who is dangerously obsessed
 ed by     with conspiracy theories and mysteries.” If
  MoS      it helps, you can always borrow ideas from
 argin     characters you've seen in movies or books,
racter     modifying them to fit your tastes.
 work         Your character's concept will likely be
ual to     influenced by two important factors: back-
 0 full    ground and faction. Your background de-
ailure.    notes the circumstances under which your
 f one     character was raised, while your faction
harac-     indicates the post-Fall grouping to which
   char-   you most recently held ties and allegiances.
y may      Both of these play a role in character cre-
acters     ation (p. 128).
  inter-
e and      MOTIVATIONS
ss the     The clash of ideologies and memes is a core
quires     component of Eclipse Phase, and so every
on.        character has three motivations—personal
  7), a    memes that dominate the character's interests
 ction,    and pursuits. These memes may be as ab-
 to de-    stract as ideologies the character adheres to
  must     or supports—for example, social anarchism,
e they     Islamic jihad, or bioconservatism—or they
   wish    may be as concrete as specific outcomes the
a –10      character desires, such as revealing a certain
reduc-     hypercorp's corruption, obtaining massive
odifier    personal wealth, or winning victories for
           uplifted rights. A motivation may also be
           framed in opposition to something; for ex-
           ample, anti-capitalism or anti-pod-citizenship,
TER        or staying out of jail. In essence, these are
           ideas that motivate the character to do the
  your
t they     things they do. Motivation is best noted as a
about      term or short phrase on the character sheet,
umber      marked with a + (in favor of) or – (opposed
 traits,   to). Players are encouraged to develop their
 istics    own distinct motivations for their characters,
 cter's    in cooperation with the gamemaster. Some
           examples are provided on p. 138.
              In game terms, motivation is used to help
           define the character's personality and influ-
           ence their actions for roleplaying purposes.
 u are
           It also serves to regain Moxie points (p. 122)
ot just
           and earn Rez Points for character advance-
 g and
           ment (p. 152).
