   Motivational goals may be short-term or long-term,
and may in fact change for a character over time.
Short-term goals are more immediately obtainable
objectives or short-lived interests, and these goals are
likely to change once achieved. Even so, they should
reflect intentions that will take more than one game
session to reach, possibly covering weeks or months.
These short-term goals may in fact tie directly into the
gamemaster's current storyline. Examples include con-
ducting a full analysis of an alien artifact, completing
a research project, or living life as an uplifted dog for a
while. Long-term goals reflect deeply rooted beliefs or
tasks that require major efforts and time (possibly life-
long) to achieve. For example, finding the lost backup
of a sibling missing since the Fall, overthrowing an
autocratic regime, or making first contact with a new
alien species. For purposes of awarding Moxie or Rez
Points, long-term goals are best broken down into
obtainable chunks. Someone whose goal is to track
down the murderer who killed their parents when they
were a child, for example, can be considered to achieve
that goal every time they discover some evidence that
brings them a little closer to solving the puzzle.

EGO VS. MORPH
Eclipse Phase's setting dictates that a distinction must
be made between a character's ego (their ingrained
self, their personality, and inherent traits that perpetu-
ate in continuity) and their morph (their ephemeral
physical—and sometimes virtual—form). A charac-
ter's morph may die while the character's ego lives on
(assuming appropriate backup measures have been
taken), transplanted into a new morph. Morphs are
expendable, but your character's ego represents the
ongoing, continuous life path of your character's mind,
personality, memories, knowledge, and so forth. This
continuity may be interrupted by an unexpected death
(depending on how recent the backup was made), or
by forking (see p. 273), but it represents the totality of
the character's mental state and experiences.
   Some aspects of your character—particularly skills,
along with some stats and traits—belong to your char-
acter's ego, which means they stay with them through-
out the character's development. Some stats and traits,
however, are determined by morph, as noted, and so
will change if your character leaves one body and
takes on another. Morphs may also affect other skills
and stats, as detailed in the morph description.
   It is important that you keep ego- and morph-de-
rived characteristics straight, especially when updating
your character's record sheet.

CHARACTER STATS
Your character's stats measure several characteristics
that are important to game play: Initiative, Speed,
Durability, Wound Threshold, Lucidity, Trauma
Threshold, and Moxie. Some of these stats are inher-
ent to your character's ego, others are influenced or
determined by morph.
EGO STATS
Initiative
Lucidity
Trauma Threshold
Insanity Rating
Moxie

MORPH STATS
Speed
Durability
Wound Threshold
Death Rating
Damage Bonus

INITIATIVE (INIT)
Your character's Initiative stat helps determine when
they act in relation to other characters during the
Action Turn (see Initiative, p. 188). Your Initiative stat
is equal to your character's Intuition + Reflexes apti-
tudes (see Aptitudes, p. 123) multiplied by 2. Certain
implants and other factors may modify this score.
                                                       EXAMPLE




  Lazaro's Intuition is 15 and his Reflexes score is
  20. That means his Initiative is 70 (15 + 20 = 35,
  35 x 2 = 70).


SPEED (SPD)
The Speed stat determines how often your character
gets to act in an Action Turn (see Initiative, p. 188).
All characters start with a Speed stat of 1, meaning
they act once per turn. Certain implants and other
advantages may boost this up to a maximum of 4.

DURABILITY (DUR)
Durability is your morph's physical health (or struc-
tural integrity in the case of synthetic shells, or system
integrity in the case of infomorphs). It determines the
amount of damage your morph can take before you are
incapacitated or killed (see Physical Health, p. 206).
   Durability is unlimited, though the range for base-
line (unmodified) humans tends to fall between 20 and
60. Your Durability stat is determined by your morph.

WOUND THRESHOLD (WT)
A Wound Threshold is used to determine if you receive a
wound each time you take physical damage (see Physi-
cal Health, p. 206). The higher the Wound Threshold,
the more resistant to serious injury you are.
   Wound Threshold is calculated by dividing Durabil-
ity by 5 (rounding up).

DEATH RATING (DR)
Death Rating is the total amount of damage your
morph can take before it is killed or destroyed
beyond repair. Death Rating is equal to DUR x 1.5 for
biomorphs and DUR x 2 for synthmorphs.
