           Tyska is sleeved in a run-of-the-mill splicer morph
           with a Durability of 30. That gives him a Wound
 EXAMPLE




           Threshold of 6 (30 ÷ 5) and a Death Rating of
           45 (30 x 1.5). If Tyska acquired an implant that
           boosted his Durability by +10 to 40, his Wound
           Threshold would be 8 (40 ÷ 5) and his Death
           Rating would be 60 (40 x 1.5).


LUCIDITY (LUC)
Lucidity is similar to Durability, except that it measures
mental health and state of mind rather than physical
well-being. Your Lucidity determines how much stress
(mental damage) you can take before you are incapaci-
tated or driven insane (see Mental Health, p. 209).
  Lucidity is unlimited, but generally ranges from
20 to 60 for baseline unmodified humans. Lucidity is
determined by your Willpower aptitude x 2.

TRAUMA THRESHOLD (TT)
The Trauma Threshold determines if you suffer a
trauma (mental wound) each time you take stress (see
Mental Health, p. 209). A higher Trauma Threshold
means that your mental state is more resilient against
experiences that might inflict psychiatric disorders or
other serious mental instabilities.
  Trauma Threshold is calculated by dividing Lucidity
by 5 (rounding up).

INSANITY RATING (IR)
Your Insanity Rating is the total amount of stress your
mind can take before you go permanently insane and
are lost for good. Insanity Rating equals LUC x 2.
 EXAMPLE




           Cole's Willpower is 16. That makes his Lucidity
           stat 32 (16 x 2), his Trauma Threshold 7 (32 ÷ 5,
           rounded up), and his Insanity Rating 64 (32 x 2)


MOXIE
Moxie represents your character's inherent talent at
facing down challenges and overcoming obstacles
with spirited fervor. More than just luck, Moxie is
your character's ability to run the edge and do what
it takes, no matter the odds. Some people consider it
the evolutionary trait that spurred humankind to pick
up tools, expand our brains, and face the future head
on, leaving other mammals in the dust. When the sky
is falling, death is imminent, and no one can help you,
Moxie is what saves the day.
   The Moxie stat is rated between 1 and 10, as pur-
chased during character creation (and perhaps raised
later). In game play, Moxie is used to influence the
odds in your favor. Every game session, your character
begins with a number of Moxie points equal to their
Moxie stat. Moxie points may be spent for any of the
following effects:
 - The character may ignore all modifiers that apply
   to a test. The Moxie point must be spent before
   dice are rolled.
 - The character may flip-flop a d100 roll result. For
   example, an 83 would become a 38.
 - The character may upgrade a success, making it a
   critical success, as if they rolled doubles. The char-
   acter must succeed in the test before they spend
   the Moxie point.
 - The character may ignore a critical failure, treat-
   ing it as a regular failure instead.
 - The character may go first in an Action Phase (p. 189).

  Only 1 point of Moxie may be spent on a single roll.
Moxie points will fluctuate during gameplay, as they
are spent and sometimes regained.
   Regaining Moxie: At the gamemaster's discretion,
Moxie points may be refreshed up to the character's
full Moxie stat any time the character rests for a sig-
nificant period. Moxie points may also be regained if
the character achieves a personal goal, as determined
by their Motivation (see p. 121). The gamemaster de-
termines how much Moxie is regained in proportion
to the goal achieved.


  Audrey has a difficult Piloting: Aircraft roll to make.
  Her skill is 61, but she's facing a lot of modifiers
  (–30), and if she fails she's in big trouble. She
                                                           EXAMPLE




  could spend a point of Moxie before the test to
  ignore the modifiers, but she decides to take her
  chances against the target number of 31. Unfor-
  tunately, she rolls an 82. Luckily, she can spend
  a Moxie point to flip-flop that roll and make it a
  28—a success!


DAMAGE BONUS
  The Damage Bonus stat quantifies how much extra
oomph your character is able to give their melee and
thrown weapons attacks. Damage Bonus is deter-
mined by dividing your Somatics aptitude (see below)
by 10 and rounding down.

CHARACTER SKILLS
Skills represent your character's talents. Skills are
broken down into aptitudes (ingrained abilities that
everyone has) and learned skills (abilities and knowl-
edge picked up over time). Skills determine the target
number used for tests (see Making Tests, p. 115).

APTITUDES
Aptitudes are the core skills that every character has
by default. They are the foundation on which learned
skills are built. Aptitudes are purchased during charac-
ter creation and rate between 1 and 30, with 10 being
average for a baseline unmodified human. They repre-
sent the ingrained characteristics and talents that your
character has developed from birth and stick with you
even when you change morphs—though some morphs
may modify your aptitude ratings.
