                                                                  - The character may ignore all modifiers that apply
           Tyska is sleeved in a run-of-the-mill splicer morph      to a test. The Moxie point must be spent before
           with a Durability of 30. That gives him a Wound          dice are rolled.
 EXAMPLE




           Threshold of 6 (30 ÷ 5) and a Death Rating of          - The character may flip-flop a d100 roll result. For
           45 (30 x 1.5). If Tyska acquired an implant that         example, an 83 would become a 38.
           boosted his Durability by +10 to 40, his Wound         - The character may upgrade a success, making it a
           Threshold would be 8 (40 ÷ 5) and his Death              critical success, as if they rolled doubles. The char-
           Rating would be 60 (40 x 1.5).                           acter must succeed in the test before they spend
                                                                    the Moxie point.
                                                                  - The character may ignore a critical failure, treat-
LUCIDITY (LUC)                                                      ing it as a regular failure instead.
Lucidity is similar to Durability, except that it measures
                                                                  - The character may go first in an Action Phase (p. 189).
mental health and state of mind rather than physical
well-being. Your Lucidity determines how much stress
                                                                   Only 1 point of Moxie may be spent on a single roll.
(mental damage) you can take before you are incapaci-
                                                                 Moxie points will fluctuate during gameplay, as they
tated or driven insane (see Mental Health, p. 209).
                                                                 are spent and sometimes regained.
  Lucidity is unlimited, but generally ranges from
                                                                    Regaining Moxie: At the gamemaster's discretion,
20 to 60 for baseline unmodified humans. Lucidity is
                                                                 Moxie points may be refreshed up to the character's
determined by your Willpower aptitude x 2.
                                                                 full Moxie stat any time the character rests for a sig-
                                                                 nificant period. Moxie points may also be regained if
TRAUMA THRESHOLD (TT)                                            the character achieves a personal goal, as determined
The Trauma Threshold determines if you suffer a
                                                                 by their Motivation (see p. 121). The gamemaster de-
trauma (mental wound) each time you take stress (see
                                                                 termines how much Moxie is regained in proportion
Mental Health, p. 209). A higher Trauma Threshold
                                                                 to the goal achieved.
means that your mental state is more resilient against
experiences that might inflict psychiatric disorders or
other serious mental instabilities.                                Audrey has a difficult Piloting: Aircraft roll to make.
  Trauma Threshold is calculated by dividing Lucidity              Her skill is 61, but she's facing a lot of modifiers
by 5 (rounding up).                                                (–30), and if she fails she's in big trouble. She




                                                                                                                            EXAMPLE
                                                                   could spend a point of Moxie before the test to
INSANITY RATING (IR)                                               ignore the modifiers, but she decides to take her
Your Insanity Rating is the total amount of stress your            chances against the target number of 31. Unfor-
mind can take before you go permanently insane and                 tunately, she rolls an 82. Luckily, she can spend
are lost for good. Insanity Rating equals LUC x 2.                 a Moxie point to flip-flop that roll and make it a
                                                                   28—a success!
 EXAMPLE




           Cole's Willpower is 16. That makes his Lucidity
           stat 32 (16 x 2), his Trauma Threshold 7 (32 ÷ 5,     DAMAGE BONUS
           rounded up), and his Insanity Rating 64 (32 x 2)        The Damage Bonus stat quantifies how much extra
                                                                 oomph your character is able to give their melee and
                                                                 thrown weapons attacks. Damage Bonus is deter-
MOXIE                                                            mined by dividing your Somatics aptitude (see below)
Moxie represents your character's inherent talent at
                                                                 by 10 and rounding down.
facing down challenges and overcoming obstacles
with spirited fervor. More than just luck, Moxie is
your character's ability to run the edge and do what
                                                                 CHARACTER SKILLS
                                                                 Skills represent your character's talents. Skills are
it takes, no matter the odds. Some people consider it
                                                                 broken down into aptitudes (ingrained abilities that
the evolutionary trait that spurred humankind to pick
                                                                 everyone has) and learned skills (abilities and knowl-
up tools, expand our brains, and face the future head
                                                                 edge picked up over time). Skills determine the target
on, leaving other mammals in the dust. When the sky
                                                                 number used for tests (see Making Tests, p. 115).
is falling, death is imminent, and no one can help you,
Moxie is what saves the day.
   The Moxie stat is rated between 1 and 10, as pur-
                                                                 APTITUDES
                                                                 Aptitudes are the core skills that every character has
chased during character creation (and perhaps raised
                                                                 by default. They are the foundation on which learned
later). In game play, Moxie is used to influence the
                                                                 skills are built. Aptitudes are purchased during charac-
odds in your favor. Every game session, your character
                                                                 ter creation and rate between 1 and 30, with 10 being
begins with a number of Moxie points equal to their
                                                                 average for a baseline unmodified human. They repre-
Moxie stat. Moxie points may be spent for any of the
                                                                 sent the ingrained characteristics and talents that your
following effects:
                                                                 character has developed from birth and stick with you
                                                                 even when you change morphs—though some morphs
                                                                 may modify your aptitude ratings.
