  Each learned skill is linked to an aptitude. If a
character doesn't have the skill necessary for a test,
they may default to the aptitude instead (see Default-
ing, p. 116).
  There are 7 aptitudes in Eclipse Phase:

 - Cognition (COG) is your aptitude for problem-
   solving, logical analysis, and understanding. It
   also includes memory and recall.
 - Coordination (COO) is your skill at integrat-
   ing the actions of different parts of your morph
   to produce smooth, successful movements. It
   includes manual dexterity, fine motor control,
   nimbleness, and balance.
 - Intuition (INT) is your skill at following your
   gut instincts and evaluating on the fly. It includes
   physical awareness, cleverness, and cunning.
 - Reflexes (REF) is your skill at acting quickly. This
   encompasses your reaction time, your gut-level
   response, and your ability to think fast.
 - Savvy (SAV) is your mental adaptability, social in-
   tuition, and proficiency for interacting with others.
   It includes social awareness and manipulation.
 - Somatics (SOM) is your skill at pushing your
   morph to the best of its physical ability, includ-
   ing the fundamental utilization of the morph's
   strength, endurance, and sustained positioning
   and motion.
 - Willpower (WIL) is your skill for self-control,
   your ability to command your own destiny.

LEARNED SKILLS
Learned skills encompass a wide range of specialties
and education, from combat training to negotiating
to astrophysics (for a complete skill list, see p. 176).
Learned skills range in rating from 1 to 99, with an
average proficiency being 50. Each learned skill is
linked to an aptitude, which represents the underlying
competency in which the skill is based. When a learned
skill is purchased (either during character generation
or advancement), it is bought starting at the rating of
the linked aptitude and then raised from there. If the
linked aptitude is raised or modified, all skills built off
it are modified appropriately as well.
   Depending on your background and faction, you
may receive some starting skills for free during
character creation. Like aptitudes, learned skills stay
with the character even when they change morphs,
though certain morphs, implants, and other factors
may sometimes modify your skill rating. If you lack
a particular skill called for by a test, in most cases
you can default to the linked aptitude for the test (see
Defaulting, p. 116).

SPECIALIZATIONS
Specializations represent an area of concentration and
focus in a particular learned skill. A character who
learns a specialization is one who not only grasps the
basic tenets of that skill, but they have trained hard
to excel in one particular aspect of that skill's field.
Specializations apply a +10 modifier when the charac-
ter utilizes that skill in the area of specialization.
   Specializations may be purchased during character
creation or advancement for any existing skill the
character possesses with a rating of 30 or more. Only
one specialization may be purchased for each skill.
Specific possible specializations are noted under indi-
vidual the skill descriptions (see Skills, p. 170).


       Toljek has Palming skill of 63 with a specializa-




                                                           EXAMPLE
  tion in Pickpocketing. Whenever he uses Palming
  to pick someone's pocket or otherwise steal from
  someone's person, his target number is 73, but for
  all other uses of Palming the standard 63 applies.


CHARACTER TRAITS
Traits include a range of inherent qualities and fea-
tures that help define your character. Some traits are
positive, in that they give your character a bonus to
certain stats, skills, or tests, or otherwise give them
an edge in certain situations. Others are negative, in
that they impair your abilities or occasionally create
a glitch in your plans. Some traits apply to a charac-
ter's ego, staying with them from body to body, while
others only apply to a character's morph.
  Traits are purchased during character generation.
Positive traits cost customization points (CP), while
negative traits give you extra CP to spend on other
things (see Traits, p. 145). The maximum number of
CP you may spend on traits is 50, while the maxi-
mum you may gain from negative traits is 50. In rare
circumstances—and only with gamemaster approv-
al—traits may be purchased, bought off, or inflicted
during gameplay (see p. 153).

CHARACTER MORPH
In Eclipse Phase, your body is disposable. If your body
gets old, sick, or too heavily damaged, you can digitize
your consciousness and download it into a new body.
The process isn't cheap or easy, but it offers effective
immortality—as long as you remember to back your-
self up and don't go insane. The term morph is used to
describe any type of form your mind inhabits, whether
it be a vat-grown clone sleeve, a synthetic robotic shell,
a part-bio/part-flesh pod, or even the purely electronic
software state of an infomorph.
   You purchase your starting morph during character
creation (see p. 128). This is likely the morph you
were born with (assuming you were born), though it
may simply be another morph you've moved onto.
   Physical looks aside, your morph has a large impact
on your characteristics. Your morph determines certain
physical stats, such as Durability and Wound Threshold,
and it may also influence Initiative and Speed. Morphs
may also modify some of your aptitudes and learned
skills. Some morphs come pre-loaded with specific traits
and implants, representing how it was crafted, and you
can always bling yourself out with more implants if
you choose (see Implants, p. 126). All of these factors
