are noted in the individual morph descriptions (see
p. 139).
   If you plan on switching your current morph to
another during gameplay, you may first want to back
yourself up (see Backups and Uploads, p. 268). Back-
ing up regularly is always a smart option in case you
suffer an accidental or untimely death. Acquiring a
new morph is not always easy, especially if you want
it pre-loaded according to certain specifications. The
full process is detailed under Resleeving, p. 271.

Aptitude Maximums
Every morph has an aptitude maximum, sometimes
modified by traits. This maximum represents the high-
est value at which the character may use that aptitude
while inhabiting that morph, reflecting an inherent
limitation in some morphs. If a character's aptitude
exceeds the aptitude maximum of their morph, they
must use it at the maximum value for the duration
of the time they remain in that morph. This may also
affect the skills linked to that aptitude, which must be
modified appropriately.
   Some implants, gear, psi, and other factors may
modify a character's natural aptitudes. These aug-
mented values may exceed a morph's aptitude maxi-
mums, as they represent external factors boosting the
morph's ability. No aptitude, however, augmented or
not, may ever exceed a value of 40. Innate ability only
takes a person so far—after that point, actual skill is
what counts.


  Eva has a Cognition aptitude of 25. She is unfor-
  tunately forced to sleeve into a flat morph with an
                                                        EXAMPLE




  aptitude maximum of 20. For the duration of the
  period she inhabits that morph, her Cognition is
  reduced to 20, which also impacts all of her COG-
  linked skills, reducing them by 5.
Things Characters Use
In the advanced technological setting of Eclipse Phase,
characters don't get by on their wits and morphs
alone; they take advantage of their credit and reputa-
tion to acquire gear and implants and use their social
networks to gather information. Some characters also
have the capability to use mental powers known as psi.

Identity
In an age of ubiquitous computing and omnipresent
surveillance, privacy is a thing of the past—who you
are and what you do is easily accessed online. Char-
acters in Eclipse Phase, however, are often involved
in secretive or less-than-legal activities, so the way to
keep the bloggers, news, paparazzi, and law off your
back is to make extensive use of fake IDs. While Fire-
wall often provides covers for its sentinel agents, it
doesn't hurt to keep a few extra personas in reserve, in
case matters ever go out the airlock in a hurry. Thank-
fully, the patchwork allegiances of city-state habitats
and faction stations means that identities aren't too
difficult to fake, and the ability to switch morphs
makes it even easier. On the other hand, anyone with a
copy of your biometrics or geneprint is going to have
an edge tracking you down or finding any forensic
traces you leave behind (for more on ID, see p. 279).

Social Networks
Social networks represent people the character knows
and social groups with which they interact. These
contacts, friends, and acquaintances are not just main-
tained in person, but also through heavy Mesh contact.
Social software allows people to stay updated on what
the people they know are doing, where they are, and
what they are interested in, right up to the minute.
Social networks also incorporate the online projects
