of individual members, whether it's a mesh-site loaded
with a band member's songs, a personal archive of
stored media, a decade of blog entries reviewing the
best places to score cheap electronics, or a depository
of research papers and studies someone has worked
on or finds interesting.
  In game play, social networks are quite useful
to characters. Their friends list is an essential
resource—a pool of people you can actively poll for
ideas, troll for news, listen to for the latest rumors,
buy or sell gear from, hit up for expert advice, and
even ask for favors.
  While a character's social networks are nebulous
and constantly shifting, the use of them is not. A
character takes advantage of their social networks via
the Networking (Field) skill (p. 182). The exact use
of this skill is covered under Reputation and Social
Networks, p. 285.

CRED
The Fall devastated the global economies and cur-
rencies of the past. In the years of reconsolidation
that followed, the hypercorps and governments
inaugurated a new system-wide electronic monetary
system. Called credit, this currency is backed by all
of the large capitalist-oriented factions and is used to
trade for goods and services as well for other financial
transactions. Credit is mainly transferred electroni-
cally, though certified credit chips are also common
(and favored for their anonymity). Hardcopy bills are
even used in some habitats.
   Depending on your background or faction, your
character may be given an amount of credit at the
start of the game. During game play, your character
must earn credit the old-fashioned way: by earning
or stealing it.

REP
Capitalism is no longer the only economy in town.
The development of nanofabricators allowed for the
existence of post-scarcity economies, a fact eagerly
taken advantage of by anarchist factions and others.
When anyone can make anything, concepts like
property and wealth become irrelevant. The advent
of functional gift and communist economies, among
other alternative economic models, means that in
such systems you can acquire any goods or services
you need via free exchange, reciprocity, or barter—
presuming you are a contributing member of such
a system and respected by your peers. Likewise, art,
creativity, innovation, and various forms of cultural
expression have a much higher worth than they do in
capitalist economies.
   In alternative economies, money is often meaning-
less, but reputation matters. Your reputation score
represents your social capital—how esteemed you
are to your peers. Rep can be increased by positively
influencing, contributing to, or helping individuals or
groups, and it can be decreased through antisocial
behavior. In anarchist habitats, your likelihood of
obtaining things that you need is entirely based on
how you are viewed by others.
   Reputation is easily measured by one of several
online social networks. Your actions are rewarded
or punished by those with whom you interact, who
can ping your Rep score with positive or negative
feedback. These networks are used by all of the fac-
tions, as reputation can affect your social activities in
capitalist economies as well. The primary reputation
networks include:

 - The @-list: the Circle-A list for anarchists, Bar-
   soomians, Extropians, scum, and Titanians, noted
   as @-rep.
 - CivicNet: used by the Jovian Republic, Lunar-
   Lagrange Alliance, Morningstar Constellation,
   Planetary Consortium, and many hypercorps,
   referred to as c-rep.
 - EcoWave: used by nano-ecologists, preservation-
   ists, and reclaimers, referred to as e-rep.
 - Fame: the seen-and-be-seen network used by
   socialites, artists, glitterati, and media, referred
   to as f-rep.
 - Guanxi: used by the triads and numerous crimi-
   nal entities, referred to as g-rep.
 - The Eye: used by Firewall, noted as i-rep.
 - RNA: Research Network Affiliation, used by ar-
   gonauts, technologists, scientists, and researchers,
   referred to as r-rep.

  Reputation is rated from 0-99. Depending on your
background and faction, you may start with a Rep
score in one or more networks. This can be bolstered
through spending customization points during charac-
ter creation. During game play, your Rep scores will
depend entirely on your character's actions. For more
information, see Reputation and Social Networks, p.
285.
  Note that each Rep score is tied to a particular
identity.

GEAR
Gear is all of the equipment your character owns
and keeps on their person, from weapons and armor
to clothing and electronics. You buy gear for your
character with customization points during character
creation (see p. 136) and in the game with Credit or
Rep. Certain restricted, illegal, or hard-to-find items
may require special efforts to obtain (see Acquiring
Gear, p. 298). If you have access to a nanofabricator,
you may be able to simply build gear, presuming you
have the proper blueprints (see Nanofabrication, p.
284). For a complete listing of equipment options, see
the Gear chapter, p. 296.
   Even among the remaining capitalist economies,
prices can vary drastically. To represent this, all
gear falls into a cost category. Each category defines
a range of costs, so the gamemaster can adjust the
prices of individual items as appropriate to the situa-
tion. Each category also lists an average price for that
