RACTER CREATION AND ADVANCEMEN



CTER CREATION AN
 The first step towards playing Eclipse Phase is to
 define your character. If you're new to the game and
 setting, the easiest way to jump right in is to simply
 select one of the Sample Characters provided on pp.
 154–169. If you're more familiar with RPGs, or you
 simply want finer control over your character, you
 can build them from scratch, perhaps using one of the
 Sample Characters as a template. This chapter will
 walk you through the process of character genera-
 tion, from the general concept and personality to the
 crunchy game statistics.



 CHARACTER GENERATION
 There are two parts to every player character. The
 first is the sets of numbers and attributes that define
 what a character is good or bad at (or even what they
 can and can't do) according to the game mechanics.
 These are more than just statistics, however—these
 characteristics help to define your character's abili-
 ties and interests, and by extension their background,
 education, training, and experience. During the
 character creation process, you will have the ability
 to assign, adjust, and juggle these characteristics as
 you like. If you have a pre-conceived notion of what
 the character is about, you can optimize the stats to
 reflect that. Alternatively, you can tweak the stats until
 you get something you like, then base the character's
 backstory off of what you develop.
    The second part to every player character is their
 personality. What defines them as a person? What
 makes them tick? What pisses them off? What sparks
 their interest? What positive aspects of their person-
 ality make them appealing as a friend, comrade, or
 lover—or at least someone interesting to play? What
 character flaws and quirks do they have? These ques-
 tions matter because they will also guide you as you
 assign stats, skills, and traits.
    Character generation is a step-by-step process.
 Unlike some games, the process for creating an Eclipse
 Phase character is not random—you have complete
 control over every aspect of your character's design.
 Some stages must be completed before you can move
 on to others. The complete process is broken down
 on the Step-By-Step Guide to Character Creation
 sidebar.

 CHARACTER CONCEPT
 Deciding what/who you want to play before you make
 the character is usually the best route. Pick a simple
 archetype that fits your character, and work from there.
 Do you want to play an explorer? Someone sneaky,
 like a spy or thief? Someone cerebral, like a scientist?
 A hardened criminal or ex-cop? Or do you prefer to
 be a rabble-rousing agitator? You can also start with a
CHARACTER CREATION AND ADVANCE



D ADVANCEMENT                                                 5


   STEP-BY-STEP GUIDE TO
   CHARACTER CREATION
   1. Define Character Concept (p. 130)
   2. Choose Background (p. 131)
   3. Choose Faction (p. 132)
   4. Spend Free Points (p. 134)
      a) 105 aptitude points
      b) 1 Moxie
      c) 5,000 credit
      d) 50 Rep
      e) Native tongue
   5. Spend Customization Points (p. 135)
      a) 1,000 CP to spend
         15 CP = 1 Moxie
         10 CP = 1 aptitude point
         5 CP = 1 psi sleight
         5 CP = 1 specialization
         2 CP = 1 skill point (61-80)
         1 CP = 1 skill point (up to 60)
         1 CP = 1,000 credit
         1 CP = 10 rep
      b) Active skill minimum: 400 skill points
      c) Knowledge skill minimum: 300 skill points
      d) Choose Starting Morph (pp. 136 and 139)
      e) Choose Traits (pp. 136 and 145)
   6. Purchase Gear (p. 136)
   7. Choose Motivation (p. 137)
   8. Calculate Remaining Stats (p. 138)
   9. Detail the Character (p. 138)



 personality type and choose an associated profession. If
 you want a social butterfly who excels at manipulating
 people, you can play a media personality, blogger, or
 party-going socialite. Perhaps you'd prefer a bottomed-
 out reject with substance abuse problems, in which
 case an ex-merc or former hypercapitalist who lost
 his fortune and family during the Fall might fit. How
 about an energetic, live-life-to-the-fullest, must-see-it-
 all character? Then a habitat freerunner or professional
 gatecrasher might be what you're looking for.
    Make sure to check in with the other players and
 try to create a character that's complementary to the
 rest of the team—preferably one who provides some
 skill-set the group lacks. Why create a research arche-
 ologist if someone else is already set on playing one,
 especially when the team lacks a good combat special-
 ist or async? On the other hand, if your team is going
 to be running an alien archeological expedition, then
 having more than one researcher (each with distinct
 areas of expertise) might not be bad.
    Once you have the basic concept, try to fill it with
 a few more details, making it into a one-sentence
