summary. If you started with the concept of “xeno-so-
ciologist,” expand it to “open-minded amateur linguist
and expert xeno-sociologist who is fascinated by alien
cultures, collects Factor kitsch, has a high-tolerance
for ‘yuck factors,' and whose best friends tend to be
uplifts and AIs.” This will give you a few more details
around which you can focus the character's strengths
and weaknesses.

CHOOSE BACKGROUND
The first step to creating your character is to choose a
background. Was your character born on Earth before
the Fall? Were they raised on a habitat commune? Or
did they start existence as a disembodied AI?
  You must choose one of the backgrounds for your
character from the list below. Choose wisely, as each
background may provide your character with certain
skills, traits, limitations, or other characteristics to
start with. Keep in mind that your background is
where you came from, not who you are now. It is
the past, whereas your faction represents whom your
character is currently aligned with. Your future, of
course, is yours to make.
  The background options presented below cover a
wide selection of transhumanity, but they cannot cover
every possibility. If your gamemaster allows it, you
may work with them to develop a background that is
not included on this list, using these as guidelines to
keep it balanced.

DRIFTER
You were raised with a social grouping that remained
on the move throughout the Sol system. This could
have been free traders, pirates, asteroid farmers, scav-
engers, or just migrant workers. You are used to roam-
ing space travel between habitats and stations.
Advantages: +10 Navigation skill, +20 Pilot: Spacecraft
  skill, +10 Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All, especially Bouncers and
  Hibernoids

FALL EVACUEE
You were born and raised on Earth and evacuated
during the horrors of the Fall, leaving your old life
(and possibly your friends, family, and loved ones)
behind you. You were lucky enough to survive with
your body intact and continue to make a life for your-
self out in the system.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 Net-
  working: [Field] skill of your choice, +1 Moxie
Disadvantages: Only 2,500 Starting Credit (can still
  buy credit with CP)
Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers

HYPERELITE
You are privileged to have been raised as part of the
immortal upper class that rules many inner system
habitats and hypercorps. You were pampered with
wealth and influence that most people can only
dream of.
Advantages: +10 Protocol skill, +10,000 Credit, +20
  Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: May not start with flat, splicer, or any
  pod, uplift, or synthetic morphs
Common Morphs: Exalts, Sylphs

INFOLIFE
You entered existence as a digital consciousness—
an artificial general intelligence (AGI). Your very
existence is illegal in certain habitats (a legacy of
those who place the Fall at the feet of rampant AIs).
Unlike the seed AIs responsible for their Fall, your
capacity for self-improvement is limited, though you
do have full autonomy.
Advantages: +30 Interfacing skill, Computer skills (In-
  fosec, Interfacing, Programming, Research) bought
  with Customization Points are half price
Disadvantages: Real World Naiveté trait, Social Stigma
  (AGI) trait, may not purchase Psi trait, Social skills
  bought with Customization Points are double price
Common Morphs: Infomorphs, synthetic morphs

ISOLATE
You were raised as part of a self-exiled grouping on
the fringes of the system. Whether raised as part of
a religious group, cult, social experiment, anti-tech
cell, or a group that just wanted to be isolated, you
spent most if not all of your upbringing isolated
from other factions.
Advantages: +20 to two skills of your choice
Disadvantages: –10 starting Rep
Common Morphs: All

LOST
You are a legacy of one of the most infamous debacles
since the Fall. As a member of the “Lost generation,”
you went through an accelerated-growth childhood,
somehow surviving where others of your kind died,
went insane, or were persecuted (see The Lost, p. 233).
Your background is a social stigma, but it does provide
you with certain advantages ... and burdens.
Advantages: +20 to two Knowledge skills of your
   choice, Psi trait
Disadvantages: Mental Disorder (choose two) trait,
   Social Stigma (Lost) trait, must start with Futura
   morph
Common Morphs: Futuras

LUNAR COLONIST
You experienced your childhood in one of the cramped
dome cities or underground stations on Luna, Earth's
moon. You had a ringside seat to the Fall of Earth.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to one
  Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession: [Field] skill
  of your choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers
