MARTIAN
  You were raised in one of the stations on or above
Mars, now the most populated planet in the system.
Your home town may or may not have survived the
Fall.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to one
  Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession: [Field]
  skill of your choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps
  skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Flats, Splicers, and Rusters

ORIGINAL SPACE COLONIST
You, or your parents, were part of the first “gen-
erations” of colonists/workers sent out from Earth to
stake a claim in space, so you are familiar with the
cramped confines of spaceflight and life aboard older
stations and habitats. As a “zero-one G” (zero-gravity,
first-gen), you were never part of the elite. People from
your background typically have some sort of special-
ized tech training as vacworkers or habtechs.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Spacecraft or Freefall skill,
   +10 to a Technical, Academic: [Field], or Profession:
   [Field] skill of your choice, +20 to a Networking:
   [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All. Use of exotic morphs is
   common.

RE-INSTANTIATED
You were born and raised on Earth, but you did not
survive the Fall. All that you know is that your body
died there, but your backup was transmitted off-world,
and you were one of the lucky few to be re-instantiated
with a new morph. You may have spent years in dead
storage, simulspace, or as an infomorph slave.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Groundcraft skill, +10 to a
  Networking: [Field] skill of your choice, +2 Moxie
Disadvantages: Edited Memories trait, 0 Starting
  Credit (can still buy credit with CP)
Common Morphs: Cases, Infomorphs, Synths

SCUMBORN
You were raised in the nomadic and chaotic lifestyle
common to Scum barges.
Advantages: +10 Persuasion or Deception skill, +10
  Scrounging skill, +20 Networking: Autonomists
  skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All, especially Bouncers

UPLIFT
You are not even human. You were born as an uplifted
animal: chimpanzee, gorilla, orangutan, parrot, raven,
crow, or octopus.
Advantages: +10 Fray skill, +10 Perception skill, +20
  to two Knowledge skills of your choice
Disadvantages: Must choose an uplift morph to start
Common Morphs: Neo-Avian, Neo-Hominid,
  Octomorph
CHOOSE FACTION
After choosing your background, you now choose
which primary faction your character belongs to.
This faction most likely represents the grouping that
controls your character's current home habitat/station,
and to which your character holds allegiance, but this
need not be the case. You may be a dissident member
of your faction, living among them but opposing some
(or all) of their core memes and perhaps agitating for
change. Whatever the case, your faction defines how
your character represents themself in the struggle be-
tween ideologies post-Fall.
  You must choose one of the factions listed below.
Like your character's background, it will provide your
character with certain skills, traits, limitations, or
other characteristics.
  The factions presented here outline the most numer-
ous and influential among transhumanity, but others
may also exist. At your gamemaster's discretion, you
may develop another starting faction with them not
included on this list.

ANARCHIST
You are opposed to hierarchy, favoring flat forms of
social organization and directly democratic decision-
making. You believe power is always corrupting and
everyone should have a say in the decisions that affect
their lives. According to the primitive and restrictive
policies of the Inner system and Jovian Junta, this
makes you an irresponsible hoodlum at best and a ter-
rorist at worst. In your opinion, that's comedy coming
from governments that keep their populations in line
with economic oppression and threats of violence.
Advantages: +10 to a skill of your choice, +30 Net-
  working: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

ARGONAUT
You are part of a scientific techno-progressive move-
ment that seeks to solve transhumanity's injustices and
inequalities with technology. You support universal
access to technology and healthcare, open source
models of production, morphological freedom, and
democratization. You try to avoid factionalism and
divisive politics, seeing transhumanity's splintering as
a hindrance to its perpetuation.
Advantages: +10 to two Technical, Academic: [Field],
  or Profession: [Field] skills; +20 Networking:
  Scientists
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

BARSOOMIAN
You call the Martian outback and wilds your home.
You are a “redneck,” a lower-class Martian from the
rural areas that often find themselves in conflict with
