the policies and goals of the hypercorp domes and Tharsis
League.
Advantages: +10 Freerunning, +10 to one skill of your choice,
  +20 Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Cases, Flats, Rusters, Splicers, Synths

BRINKER
You or your faction is reluctant to deal with the rest of the
transhumanity and the various goings-on in the rest of the
system. Your particular grouping may have sought out self-
imposed isolation, to pursue their own interests, or they may
have been exiled for their unpopular beliefs. Or you may
simply be a loner who prefers the vast emptiness of space
to socializing with others. You might be a religious cultist, a
primitivist, a utopian, or something altogether uninterested
in transhumanity.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Spacecraft skill, +10 to a skill of your
choice, +20 to a Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

CRIMINAL
You are involved with the crime-oriented underworld. You
may work with one of the Sol system's major criminal fac-
tions—triads, the Night Cartel, the ID Crew, Nine Lives, Pax
Familae—or one of the smaller, local operators with a big
stake in a specific habitat. You might be a vetted member-
for-life, a reluctant recruit, or just a freelancer looking for
the next gig.
Advantages: +10 Intimidation skill, +30 Networking: Crimi-
   nal skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

EXTROPIAN
You are an anarchistic supporter of the free market and pri-
vate property. You oppose government and favor a system
where security and legal matters are handled by private com-
petitors. Whether you consider yourself an anarcho-capitalist
or a mutualist (a difference only other Extropians can figure
out), you occupy a middle-ground between the hypercorps
and autonomists, dealing with both and yet trusted by neither.
Advantages: +10 Persuasion skill, +20 Networking: Autono-
  mists skill, +10 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

HYPERCORP
You hail from a habitat controlled by the hypercorps. You
might be a hypercapitalist entrepeneur, a hedonistic socialite,
or a lowly vacworker, but you accept that certain liberties
must be sacrificed for security and freedom.
Advantages: +10 Protocol skill, +20 Networking: Hypercorps
  skill, +10 to any Networking: [Field] skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Exalts, Olympians, Splicers, Sylphs
