JOVIAN
Your faction is noted for its authoritarian regime, bio-
conservative ideologies, and militaristic tendencies.
Where you come from, technology is not to be trusted to
everyone and humans need to be protected from them-
selves. To ensure its survival, humanity must be able to
defend itself, and unfettered growth must be checked.
Advantages: +10 to two weapon skills of your choice,
  +10 Fray, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: Must start with a Flat or Splicer
   morph, may not start with any nanoware or ad-
  vanced nanotech
Common Morphs: Flats and Splicers

LUNAR
You hail from Luna, the original off-Earth colony
world. Now overpopulated and in decline, Luna is
one of the few places where people still cling to old-
Earth ethnic and national identities. Your home is also
within sight of Earth, a constant reminder that encour-
ages many “Loonies” to be Reclaimers, deploring the
hypercorp interdiction and arguing that you have a
right to return to Earth, terraform it, and re-establish
it as a living homeworld.
Advantages: +10 to one Language: [Field] of your
   choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill, +10
   Networking: Ecologists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Cases, Exalts, Flats, Splicers,
   Synths

MERCURIAL
Your faction has no interest in co-opting their true
natures in order to become more “human.” You might
be an AGI that does not necessarily intertwine its
destiny with transhumanity, or an uplift that seeks
to preserve and promote non-human life (or at least
your own species). You might even be an infomorph or
posthuman who has strayed so far from transhuman
interests and values that you now consider yourself to
be forging a unique new path of life.
Advantages: +10 to any two skills of your choice, +20
   to a Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Infomorphs, Synths, uplift morphs

SCUM
This is the future we've all been waiting for, and you're
going to enjoy it to the max. A paradigm shift has oc-
curred, and while everyone else is catching up, your
faction embraces and revels in it. There is no more
want, no more death, no more limits on what you can
be. The scum have immersed themselves in a new way
of life, changing themselves as they see fit, trying out
new experiences, and pushing the boundaries wherever
they can ... and fuck anyone who can't deal with that.
Advantages: +10 Freefall skill, +10 to a skill of your
  choice, +20 Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All
SOCIALITE
You are a member of the inner system glitterati, the
media-saturated social cliques that set trends, spread
memes, and make or break lives with whispers, in-
nuendo, and backroom deals. You are simultaneously
an icon and a devout follower. Culture isn't just your
life, it's your weapon of choice.
Advantages: +10 Persuasion skill, +10 Protocol skill,
   +20 Networking: Media skill
Disadvantages: May not start with flat, pod, uplift, or
   synthetic morphs
Common Morphs: Exalts, Olympians, Sylphs

TITANIAN
You are a participant in the Titanian Commonwealth's
socialist cyberdemocracy. Unlike other autonomist
projects, Titanian joint efforts have assembled some
impressive infrastructural projects as approved by
the Titanian Plurality and pursued by state-owned
microcorps.
Advantages: +10 to two Technical or Academic skills
  of your choice, +20 Networking: Autonomists skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: All

ULTIMATE
Your faction sees the potential in transhumanity's
future and looks back upon the rest of transhuman-
ity as weak and hedonistic. Transhumanity is set
to take the next evolutionary step and it's time for
transhumans to be redesigned to the best of our
capabilities.
Advantages: +10 to two skills of your choice, +20 to a
   Networking: [Field] skill of your choice
Disadvantages: May not start with Flat, Splicer, uplift,
   or pod morphs
Common Morphs: Exalts, Remades

VENUSIAN
You are a supporter of the Morningstar Confedera-
tion of Venusian aerostats, resentful of the growing
influence of the Planetary Consortium and other en-
trenched and conservative inner system powers. You
see your faction's ascension as a chance to reform the
old guard ways of inner system politics.
Advantages: +10 Pilot: Aircraft, +10 to one skill of
   your choice, +20 Networking: Hypercorps skill
Disadvantages: None
Common Morphs: Cases, Exalts, Mentons, Splicers,
   Sylphs, Synths

SPEND FREE POINTS
Each starting character receives an equal number of
free points for things like rep and aptitudes. These
free points are just the start for building your charac-
ter, so don't fret if you can't get certain scores as high
as you like. In the next stage of character creation,
you will gain additional points with which you can
customize your character (see Spend Customization
Points, p. 135).
