LEARNED SKILLS
Each character must purchase a minimum of 400 skill
points of Active skills and 300 skill points of Knowl-
edge skills (see Skills, p. 170). Skills are bought at the
cost of 1 CP per point. Keep in mind that learned
skills start at the rating of the linked aptitude. For
example, if you want to raise a skill to 30 and the
skill's linked aptitude is 10, you'll need to spend 20 CP.
Skill bonuses from background or faction should also
be applied to the rating before you start raising the
skill. For simplicity, it is recommended that skills be
purchased as multiples of 5, but this is not a necessity.
  Raising a skill over 60 is expensive. Each point over
60 costs double. Raising a skill with a linked attribute
of 20 up to 70 would cost 60 CP: 40 points to get from
20 to 60, and 20 more points to get from 60 to 70.
  No learned skill may be raised over 80 during char-
acter creation (unless you have the Expert trait, p. 146).
  Though Knowledge skills are grouped into 5 skills,
each is a field skill (p. 172), meaning that it can be
taken multiple times with different fields.
  A complete list of skills can be found on p. 176.

SPECIALIZATIONS
Specializations (p. 173) may also be purchased at the
cost of 5 CP per specialization. You may purchase
specializations for both Active and Knowledge skills.
Only 1 specialization may be purchased per skill, and
they may only be bought for skills with a rating of
30+.

BUYING MORE CREDIT
If you want more cred to spend on gear, every CP will
get you 1,000 credits. See Purchase Gear, p. 136, for
details on buying stuff. The maximum CP you can
spend on additional credits is 100.

INCREASING REP
If you want your character to start play with lots of
social capital, you can increase your Rep score(s) at
the cost of 1 CP per 10 additional points. No indi-
vidual Rep score may be raised above 80, and the
maximum amount of CP that may be spent on Rep
is 35 points.

STARTING MORPH
Perhaps the most important use of CP is to buy the
morph with which your character begins play. This
may be the original bodily form in which your charac-
ter started life, or it may simply be the sleeve they are
currently inhabiting.
  Available morphs are listed starting on p. 139.
  Note that any aptitude or skill bonuses provided by
the morph are applied after all CP are spent. In other
words, these bonuses do not affect the costs of buying
aptitude and skill points during character generation.
No aptitude may be modified over 40.

PURCHASING TRAITS
Traits represent specific qualities your character has
that may help or hinder them.
   Positive traits supply bonuses in certain situations,
and each has a listed CP cost. You may not spend
more than 50 CP on positive traits.
   Negative traits inflict disadvantages on your charac-
ter, but they also give you extra CP that you can spend
on customizing your character. You may not purchase
more than 50 CP worth of negative traits, and no
more than 25 CP may be negative morph traits.
   Positive traits are listed on p. 145, negative traits on
p. 148. Note that traits you receive from your back-
ground or faction do not cost or provide you with
bonus CP.
   Traits listed as morph traits apply to the morph, and
not the ego. If the character switches to a new morph,
these traits are lost (and new morph traits may be
gained). Morph traits may be bought like other traits
during character generation.

PSI SLEIGHTS
Characters who purchase the Psi trait (p. 147) may
spend CP to purchase sleights (see Sleights, p. 223).
These represent specific psi abilities the character has
learned. The cost to buy a sleight is 5 CP. No more
