DETAILING THE CHARACTER
The final step in character creation is filling in the de-
tails and figuring out what your character is like and
what they are all about. Your character's Background
is a good place to start as it says where they came, but
it could be expanded. What did they think of their
childhood? Do they still have ties from there? How
did they move from such origins to the Faction they
are part of? Are they fully supportive of their Faction's
goals, or are they in opposition? How does the charac-
ter view other Factions?
   Next, take a look at the skills and other defining
points—these also tell a story. How did they acquire
those skills? Why? How did they develop their Rep
score (or lack of one)? How did they get connected
with the groupings represented by their Networking
skills? What do the character's traits say about them?
How did they get their current morph? Is it their
original? If not, what happened to their first body?
   Also taking into account the major factor of Moti-
vations, all of these questions will help you build a de-
fining picture of your character. Not everything about
your character needs to be filled out, of course—it's
ok to leave a few blanks that you can fill in later. As-
sembling the points you have deduced so far will help
you to present your character as a whole, unique indi-
vidual, however, rather than just a blank template.
   As a final step, take a few minutes to pick out some
specific identifying features and personality quirks that
will help you define the character to others. This could
be a way of talking, a strongly-projected attitude, a
catchphrase they use frequently, a unique look or style
of dress, a repetitive behavior, an annoying manner-
ism, or anything else similar that is easy to latch onto.
Such idiosyncrasies give something that other players
can latch onto, spurring roleplaying opportunities.



STARTING MORPHS
Each morph has an associated CP cost. It also sup-
plies the character's Durability and Wound Threshold
stats, and may modify Initiative, Speed, and certain
aptitudes and learned skills. A credit cost is also listed,
but this refers to the cost of buying such a morph in
gameplay.
   Flexible Aptitude Bonuses: Some morphs have ap-
titude bonuses that may be applied to an aptitude of
the player's choice. This reflects that not all morphs
are created equal. When assigning these universal ap-
titude bonuses, each boost must be applied to a sepa-
rate aptitude; you may not elevate an aptitude that
is already raised by that morph. Once an individual
morph's aptitude bonuses have been assigned, they
are permanent for that morph (i.e., if another char-
acter resleeves into that morph, the bonuses remain
the same).

BIOMORPHS
Biomorphs are fully biological sleeves (usually
equipped with implants), birthed naturally or in an
exowomb, and grown to adulthood either naturally
or at a slightly accelerated rate.

FLATS
Flats are baseline unmodified humans, born with all
of the natural defects, hereditary diseases, and other
genetic mutations that evolution so lovingly applies.
Flats are increasingly rare—most died off with the rest
of humanity during the Fall. Most new children are
splicers—screened and genefixed at the least—except
in habitats where flats are treated as second-class citi-
zens and indentured labor.
Implants: None
Aptitude Maximum: 20
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Disadvantages: None (Genetic Defects trait common)
CP Cost: 0
Credit Cost: High

SPLICERS
Splicers are genefixed humans. Their genome has
been cleansed of hereditary diseases and optimized
for looks and health, but has not otherwise been
substantially upgraded. Splicers make up the major-
ity of transhumanity.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
   Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 25
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: +5 to one aptitude of the player's choice
CP Cost: 10
Credit Cost: High

EXALTS
Exalt morphs are genetically-enhanced humans, de-
signed to emphasize specific traits. Their genetic code
has been tweaked to make them healthier, smarter,
and more attractive. Their metabolism is modified to
predispose them towards staying fit and athletic for
the duration of an extended lifespan.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
   Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 35
Wound Threshold: 7
Advantages: +5 COG, +5 to three other aptitudes of
   the player's choice
CP Cost: 30
Credit Cost: Expensive

MENTONS
Mentons are genetically modified to increase cogni-
tive abilities, particularly learning ability, creativity,
attentiveness, and memory. Rumors exist of super-
enhanced mentons with more extreme intelligence
mods, but brain-hacking is notoriously difficult, and
many attempts to redesign mental faculties result in
impaired functioning, instability, or insanity.
