only 1-2 hours a day on average. They also have the
ability to trigger a form of voluntary hibernation,
effectively stopping their metabolism and need for
oxygen. Hibernoids make excellent long-duration
space travelers and habtechs, but these morphs are
also favored by personal aides and hypercapitalists
with non-stop lifestyles.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Circa-
   dian Regulation, Cortical Stack, Hibernation
Aptitude Maximum: 25
Durability: 35
Wound Threshold: 7
Advantages: +5 INT, +5 to one aptitude of the player's
   choice
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

NEOTENICS
Neotenics are transhumans modified to retain a child-
like form. They are smaller, more agile, inquisitive,
and less resource-depleting, making them ideal for
habitat living and spacecraft. Some people find neo-
tenic sleeves distasteful, especially when employed in
certain media and sex work capacities.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
   Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 20 (SOM), 30 (all else)
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 REF, +5 to one
   aptitude of the player's choice; neotenics count as a
   small target (–10 modifier to hit in combat)
Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Neotenic) trait
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

REMADE
The remade are completely redesigned humans:
humans 2.0. Their cardiovascular systems are stronger,
the digestive tract has been sanitized and restructured
to eliminate flaws, and they have otherwise been opti-
mized for good health, smarts, and longevity with nu-
merous transgenic mods. The remade are popular with
the ultimates faction. The remade look close to human,
but are different in very noticeable and sometimes eerie
ways: taller, lack of hair, slightly larger craniums, wider
eyes, smaller noses, smaller teeth, and elongated digits.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Circa-
  dian Regulation, Clean Metabolism, Cortical Stack,
  Eidetic Memory, Enhanced Respiration, Tempera-
  ture Tolerance, Toxin Filters
Aptitude Maximum: 40
Durability: 40
Wound Threshold: 8
Advantages: +10 COG, +5 SAV, +10 SOM, +5 to two
  other aptitudes of the player's choice
Disadvantages: Uncanny Valley trait
CP Cost: 60
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000+)
RUSTERS
Adapted for survival with minimum gear in the not-
yet-terraformed Martian environment, these transgenic
morphs feature insulated skin for more effective ther-
moregulation and respiratory system improvements to
require less oxygen and filter carbon dioxyde, among
other mods.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
  Stack, Enhanced Respiration, Temperature Tolerance
Aptitude Maximum: 25
Durability: 35
Wound Threshold: 7
Advantages: +5 SOM, +5 to one aptitude of the
  player's choice
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

NEO-AVIANS
Neo-avians include ravens, crows, and gray parrots
uplifted to human-level intelligence. Their physical
sizes are much larger than their non-uplifted cous-
ins (to the size of a human child), with larger heads
for their increased brain size. Numerous transgenic
modifications have been made to their wings, allow-
ing them to retain limited flight capabilities at 1 g,
but giving them a more bat-like physiology so they
can bend and fold better, and adding primitive digits
for basic tool manipulation. Their toes are also more
articulated and now accompanied with an opposable
thumb. Neo-avians have adapted well to microgravity
environments, and are favored for their small size and
reduced resource use.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
   Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 25 (20 SOM)
Durability: 20
Wound Threshold: 4
Advantages: Beak/Claw Attack (1d10 DV, use Un-
   armed Combat skill), Flight, +5 INT, +10 REF, +5
   to one other aptitude of the player's choice
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

NEO-HOMINIDS
Neo-hominids are uplifted chimpanzees, gorillas, and
orangutans. All feature enhanced intelligence and
bipedal frames.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts,
  Cortical Stack
Aptitude Maximum: 25
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 SOM, +5 to one other
  aptitude of the player's choice, +10 Climbing skill
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

OCTOMORPHS
These uplifted octopi sleeves have proven quite useful
in zero-gravity environments. They retain eight arms,
