               their chameleon ability to change skin
            color, ink sacs, and a sharp beak. They also
         have increased cranial capacity and longev-
     ity, can breathe both air and water, and lack a
 skeletal structure so they can squeeze through tight
spaces. Octomorphs typically crawl along in zero-
gravity using their arm suckers and expelling air for
propulsion and can even walk on two of their arms
in low gravity. Their eyes have been enhanced with
color vision, provide a 360-degree field of vision, and
they rotationally adjust to keep the slit-shaped pupil
aligned with “up.” A transgenic vocal system allows
them to speak.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
   Stack, Chameleon Skin
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: 8 Arms, Beak Attack (1d10 DV, use
   Unarmed Combat skill), Ink Attack (blinding, use
   Exotic Ranged: Ink Attack skill), Limber (Level 2)
   trait, 360-degree Vision, +30 Swimming skill, +10
   Climbing skill, +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 to one other
   aptitude of the player's choice
CP Cost: 50
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)

PODS
Pods (from “pod people”) are vat-grown, biological
bodies with extremely undeveloped brains that are
augmented with an implanted computer and cybernet-
ics system. Though typically run by an AI, pods are
socially unfavored in some stations, utilized in slave
labor in others, and even illegal in some areas. Because
pods underwent accelerated growth in their creation,
and were mostly grown as separate parts and then
                        assembled, their biological
                     design includes some shortcuts
                 and limitations, offset with implants
               and regular maintenance. They lack
          reproductive capabilities. In many habitats,
       their legal status is a hotly-contested issue.
      Unless otherwise noted, pods are also consid-
 ered biomorphs for all rules purposes.

PLEASURE PODS
Pleasure pods are exactly what they seem—faux
humans designed purely for intimate entertainment
purposes. Pleasure pods have extra nerve clusters in
their erogenous zones, fine motor control over certain
muscle groups, enhanced pheromones, sanitized me-
tabolisms, and the genetics for purring. Naturally, they
are crafted for good looks and charisma and enhanced
in other areas as well. Pleasure pods are capable of
switching their sex at will to male, female, hermaph-
rodite, or neuter.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Clean
  Metabolism, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
  Pheromones, Mnemonic Augmentation, Puppet
  Sock, Sex Switch
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: +5 INT, +5 SAV, +5 to one aptitude of the
  player's choice
Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pleasure Pod) trait
CP Cost: 20
Credit Cost: High

WORKER PODS
Part exalt human, part machine, these basic pods are
virtually indistinguishable from humans. Worker pods
are often used in menial labor jobs where interaction
with humans is necessary.
   Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation,
Puppet Sock
   Aptitude Maximum: 30
   Durability: 35
   Wound Threshold: 7
   Advantages: +10 SOM, +5 to one aptitude of the
player's choice
   Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pod) trait
   CP Cost: 20
   Credit Cost: High

NOVACRAB
Novacrabs are a pod design bio-engineered from
coconut crab and spider crab stock and grown to a
larger (human) size. Novacrabs are ideal for hazard-
ous work environments as well as vacworker, police,
or bodyguard duties, giving their ten 2-meter long legs,
massive claws, and chitinous armor. They climb and
handle microgravity well and can withstand a wide
range of atmospheric pressure (and sudden pressure
changes) from vacuum to deep sea. Novacrabs feature
