                                                                                   assembled, their biological
                                                                                design includes some shortcuts
                                                                            and limitations, offset with implants
                                                                          and regular maintenance. They lack
                                                                     reproductive capabilities. In many habitats,
                                                                  their legal status is a hotly-contested issue.
                                                                 Unless otherwise noted, pods are also consid-
                                                            ered biomorphs for all rules purposes.

                                                           PLEASURE PODS
                                                           Pleasure pods are exactly what they seem—faux
                                                           humans designed purely for intimate entertainment
                                                           purposes. Pleasure pods have extra nerve clusters in
                                                           their erogenous zones, fine motor control over certain
                                                           muscle groups, enhanced pheromones, sanitized me-
                                                           tabolisms, and the genetics for purring. Naturally, they
                                                           are crafted for good looks and charisma and enhanced
                                                           in other areas as well. Pleasure pods are capable of
                                                           switching their sex at will to male, female, hermaph-
                                                           rodite, or neuter.
                                                           Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Clean
                                                             Metabolism, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
                                                             Pheromones, Mnemonic Augmentation, Puppet
                                                             Sock, Sex Switch
               their chameleon ability to change skin
                                                           Aptitude Maximum: 30
            color, ink sacs, and a sharp beak. They also
                                                           Durability: 30
         have increased cranial capacity and longev-
                                                           Wound Threshold: 6
     ity, can breathe both air and water, and lack a
                                                           Advantages: +5 INT, +5 SAV, +5 to one aptitude of the
 skeletal structure so they can squeeze through tight
                                                             player's choice
spaces. Octomorphs typically crawl along in zero-
                                                           Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pleasure Pod) trait
gravity using their arm suckers and expelling air for
                                                           CP Cost: 20
propulsion and can even walk on two of their arms
                                                           Credit Cost: High
in low gravity. Their eyes have been enhanced with
color vision, provide a 360-degree field of vision, and
they rotationally adjust to keep the slit-shaped pupil
                                                           WORKER PODS
                                                           Part exalt human, part machine, these basic pods are
aligned with “up.” A transgenic vocal system allows
                                                           virtually indistinguishable from humans. Worker pods
them to speak.
                                                           are often used in menial labor jobs where interaction
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical
                                                           with humans is necessary.
   Stack, Chameleon Skin
                                                              Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
Aptitude Maximum: 30
                                                           tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation,
Durability: 30
                                                           Puppet Sock
Wound Threshold: 6
                                                              Aptitude Maximum: 30
Advantages: 8 Arms, Beak Attack (1d10 DV, use
                                                              Durability: 35
   Unarmed Combat skill), Ink Attack (blinding, use
                                                              Wound Threshold: 7
   Exotic Ranged: Ink Attack skill), Limber (Level 2)
                                                              Advantages: +10 SOM, +5 to one aptitude of the
   trait, 360-degree Vision, +30 Swimming skill, +10
                                                           player's choice
   Climbing skill, +5 COO, +5 INT, +5 to one other
                                                              Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Pod) trait
   aptitude of the player's choice
                                                              CP Cost: 20
CP Cost: 50
                                                              Credit Cost: High
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)

PODS                                                       NOVACRAB
                                                           Novacrabs are a pod design bio-engineered from
Pods (from “pod people”) are vat-grown, biological
                                                           coconut crab and spider crab stock and grown to a
bodies with extremely undeveloped brains that are
                                                           larger (human) size. Novacrabs are ideal for hazard-
augmented with an implanted computer and cybernet-
                                                           ous work environments as well as vacworker, police,
ics system. Though typically run by an AI, pods are
                                                           or bodyguard duties, giving their ten 2-meter long legs,
socially unfavored in some stations, utilized in slave
                                                           massive claws, and chitinous armor. They climb and
labor in others, and even illegal in some areas. Because
                                                           handle microgravity well and can withstand a wide
pods underwent accelerated growth in their creation,
                                                           range of atmospheric pressure (and sudden pressure
and were mostly grown as separate parts and then
                                                           changes) from vacuum to deep sea. Novacrabs feature
