compound eyes (with human-equivalent image resolu-
tion), gills, dexterous manipulatory digits on their fifth
set of limbs, and transgenic vocal cords.
Implants: Basic Biomods, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cara-
   pace Armor, Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced
   Respiration, Gills, Mnemonic Augmentation,
   Oxygen Reserve, Puppet Sock, Temperature Toler-
   ance, Vacuum Sealing
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 40
Wound Threshold: 8
Advantages: 10 legs, Carapace Armor (11/11), Claw
   Attack (DV 2d10), +10 SOM, +5 to two other apti-
   tudes of the player's choice
CP Cost: 60
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)

SYNTHETIC MORPHS
   Synthetic morphs are completely artificial/robotic.
They are usually operated by AIs or via remote con-
trol, but the lack of available biomorphs after the
Fall meant that many infugees resorted to resleeving
in robotic shells, which were also cheaper, quicker to
manufacture, and more widely available. Neverthe-
less, synthmorphs are viewed with disdain in many
habitats, an option that only the poor and desperate
accept to be sleeved in. Synthetic morphs are not
without with their advantages, however, and so are
commonly used for menial labor, heavy labor, habitat
construction, and security services.
  All synthmorphs have the following advantages:

  - Lack of Biological Functions. Synthmorphs need
    not be bothered with trivialities like breathing,
    eating, defecating, aging, sleeping, or any similar
    minor but crucial aspects of biological life.
  - Pain Filter. Synthmorphs can filter out their
    pain receptors, so that they are unhampered by
    wounds or physical damage. This allows them
    to ignore the –10 modifier from 1 wound (see
    Wound Effects, p. 207), but they suffer –30 on
    any tactile-based Perception Tests and will not
    even notice they have been damaged unless they
    succeed in a (modified) Perception Test.
  - Immunity to Shock Weapons. Synthmorphs have
    no nervous system to disrupt, and their optical
    electronics are carefully shielded from interfer-
    ence. Shock attacks may temporarily disrupt their
    wireless radio communications, however, for the
    duration of the attack.
  - Environmental Durability. Synthmorphs are
    built to withstand a wide range of environments,
    from dusty Mars to the oceans of Europa to the
    vacuum of space. They are unaffected by any but
    the most extreme temperatures and atmospheric
    pressures. Treat as Temperature Tolerance (p.
    305) and Vacuum Sealing (p. 305).
  - Toughness. Synthetic shells are made to last—a
    fact reflected in their higher Durability and built-
       in Armor ratings. Their composition also makes
       their physical strikes more damaging: apply a +2
       DV modifier on unarmed attacks for human-sized
       shells and larger.

CASE
Cases are extremely cheap, mass-produced robotic
shells intended to provide an affordable remor-
phing option for the millions of infugees created by
the Fall. Though many varieties of case bot models
exist, they are uniformly regarded as shoddy and
inferior. Most case morphs are vaguely anthromor-
phic, with a thin framework body, standing just
shorter than an average human, and suffer from
frequent malfunctions.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
   tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation
Mobility System (Movement Rate): Walker (4/16)
Aptitude Maximum: 20
Durability: 20
Wound Threshold: 4
Advantages: Armor (4/4)
Disadvantages: –5 to one chosen aptitude, Lemon trait,
   Social Stigma (Clanking Masses) trait
CP Cost: 5
Credit Cost: Moderate

SYNTH
Synths are anthromorphic robotic shells (androids
and gynoids). They are typically used for menial
labor jobs where pods are not as good of an option.
Cheaper than many other morphs, they are com-
monly used for people who need a morph quickly
and cheaply or simply on a transient basis. Though
they look humanoid, synths are easily recognizable
as non-biological unless they have the synthetic mask
option (p. 311).
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
  tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation
Mobility System: Walker (4/20)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 40
Wound Threshold: 8
Advantages: +5 SOM, +5 to one other aptitude of the
  player's choice, Armor 6/6
Disadvantages: Social Stigma (Clanking Masses) trait,
  Uncanny Valley trait
CP Cost: 30
Credit Cost: High

ARACHNOIDS
Arachnoid robotic shells are 1-meter in length, seg-
mented into two parts, with a smaller head, like a
spider or termite. They feature four pairs of 1.5-meter-
long retractable arms/legs, capable of rotating around
the axis of the body, with built-in hydraulics for
propelling the bot with small leaps. The manipula-
tor claws on each arm/leg can be switched out with
extendable mini-wheels for high-speed skating
