movement. A smaller pair of manipulator arms near
the head allows for closer handling and tool use. In
zero-G environments, arachnoids can retract their
arms/legs and maneuver with vectored air thrusters.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
  Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced Vision, Extra
  Limbs (6 Arms/Legs), Lidar, Mnemonic Augmenta-
  tion, Pneumatic Limbs, Radar
Mobility System: Walker (4/24), Thrust Vector (8/40)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 40
Wound Threshold: 8
Advantages: +5 COO, +10 SOM, Armor 8/8
CP Cost: 45
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 40,000+)

DRAGONFLY
The dragonfly robotic morph takes the shape of a
meter-long flexible shell with multiple wings and ma-
nipulator arms. Capable of near-silent turbofan-aided
flight in Earth gravity, dragonfly bots fare even better
in microgravity.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
   tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation
Mobility System: Winged (8/32)
Aptitude Maximum: 30 (20 SOM)
Durability: 25
Wound Threshold: 5
Advantages: Flight, +5 REF, Armor (2/2)
CP Cost: 20
Credit Cost: High

FLEXBOTS
Designed for multi-purpose functions, flexbots can
transform their shells to suit a range of situations
and tasks. Their core frame consists of a half-dozen
interlocking and shape-adjustable modules capable
of auto-transforming into a variety of shapes: multi-
legged walker, tentacle, hovercraft, and many others.
Each module features its own sensor units and “bush
robot” fractal-branching digits (each capable of break-
ing into smaller digits, down to the micrometer scale,
allowing for ultra-fine manipulation). The flexbot
control computer is also distributed between modules.
Individual flexbots are only the size of a large dog, but
multiple flexbots can join together for larger mass
operations, even taking on heavy-duty tasks such as
demolition, excavation, manufacturing, robotics as-
sembly, and so on.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
   tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Fractal Digits, Mnemonic
  Augmentation, Modular Design, Shape Adjusting
Mobility System: Walker (4/16), Hover (8/40)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 25
Wound Threshold: 5
Advantages: Armor 4/4
CP Cost: 20
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 30,000+)
REAPER
The reaper is a common combat bot, used in place of
biomorph soldiers and typically operated via teleop-
eration or by autonomous AI. The reaper's core form
is an armored disc, so that it can turn and present a
thin profile to an enemy. It uses vector thrust nozzles
to maneuver in microgravity, and also takes advan-
tage of an ionic drive for fast movement over distance.
Four legs/manipulating arms and four weapon pods
are folded inside its frame. The reaper's shell is made
of smart materials, allowing these limbs and weapon
mounts to extrude in any direction desired and even
to change shape and length. In gravity environments,
the reaper walks or hops on two or four of these limbs.
Reapers are infamous due to numerous war XPs, and
bringing one into most habitats will undoubtedly raise
eyebrows, if not get you arrested.
Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks,
   Anti-Glare, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cortical Stack,
   Cyberbrain, Cyber Claws, Extra Limbs (4), Heavy
   Combat Armor, Magnetic System, Pneumatic Limbs,
   Puppet Sock, Radar, Reflex Booster, Shape Adjusting,
   Structural Enhancement, T-Ray Emitter, Weapon
   Mount (Articulated, 4)
Mobility System: Walker (4/20), Hopper (4/20), Ionic
   (12/40), Vectored Thrust (4/20)
Aptitude Maximum: 40
Speed Modifier: +1 (Reflex Booster)
Durability: 50 (60 with Structural Enhancement)
Wound Threshold: 10 (12 w/Structural Enhancement)
Advantages: 4 Limbs, +5 COO, +10 REF (+20 with
   Reflex Booster), +10 SOM, Armor 16/16
CP Cost: 100
Credit Cost: Expensive (minimum 50,000+)

SLITHEROIDS
Slitheroid bots are synthetic shells taking the form of
a 2-meter-long segmented metallic snake, with two re-
tractable arms for tool use. Snake bots can coil, twist,
and roll their bodies into a ball or hoop, moving either
by slithering, burrowing, rolling, or pulling themselves
along by their arms. The sensor suite and control com-
puter are housed in the head.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts,
   Cortical Stack, Cyberbrain, Enhanced Vision, Mne-
   monic Augmentation
Mobility System: Snake (4/16; 8/32 rolling)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 45
Wound Threshold: 9
Advantages: +5 COO, +5 SOM, +5 to one other apti-
   tude of the player's choice, Armor 8/8
CP Cost: 40
Credit Cost: Expensive

SWARMANOID
The swarmanoid is not a single shell per se, but rather
a swarm of hundreds of insect-sized robotic micro-
drones. Each individual “bug” is capable of crawling,
rolling, hopping several meters, or using nanocopter
