fan blades for airlift. The controlling computer and
sensor systems are distributed throughout the swarm.
Though the swarm can “meld” together into a roughly
child-sized shape, the swarm is incapable of tackling
physical tasks like grabbing, lifting, or holding as a
unit. Individual bugs are quite capable of interfacing
with electronics.
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Basic Mesh Inserts, Cor-
  tical Stack, Cyberbrain, Mnemonic Augmentation,
  Swarm Composition
Mobility System: Walker (2/8), Hopper (4/20), Rotor
  (4/32)
Aptitude Maximum: 30
Durability: 30
Wound Threshold: 6
Advantages: See Swarm Composition (p. 311)
Disadvantages: See Swarm Composition (p. 311)
CP Cost: 25
Credit Cost: Expensive

INFOMORPHS
Infomorphs are digital-only forms—they lack a physi-
cal body. Infomorphs are sometimes carried by other
characters instead of (or in addition to) a muse in a
ghostrider module (p. 307). Full rules for infomorphs
can be found on p. 264.
Enhancements: Mnemonic Augmentation
Aptitude Maximum: 40
Speed Modifier: +2
Disadvantages: No physical form
CP Cost: 0
Credit Cost: 0



TRAITS
Unless otherwise noted, listed traits are ego traits.

POSITIVE TRAITS
Positive traits provide bonuses to the character in
certain situations.

ADAPTABILITY
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
  Resleeving is a breeze for this character. They adjust
to new morphs much more quickly than most other
people. Apply a +10 modifier per level for Integration
Tests and Alienation Tests (p. 272).

ALLIES
Cost: 30 CP
   The character is part of or has a relationship with
some influential group that they can occasionally call
on for support. For example, this could be their old
gatecrashing crew, former research lab co-workers,
a criminal cartel they are part of, or an elite social
clique. The gamemaster and player should work out
what the character's relationship is with this group,
and why the character can call on them for aid.
Gamemaster's should take care that these allies are
not abused, such as calling on them more than once
per game session. The character's ties to this group
are also a two-way street—they will be expected to
perform duties for the group on occasion as well (a
potential plot seed for scenarios).

AMBIDEXTROUS
Cost: 10 CP
  The character can use and manipulate objects
equally well with both hands (they do not suffer the
off-hand modifier, as noted on p. 193). If the char-
acter has other prehensile limbs (feet, tail, tentacles,
etc), this trait may be applied to a limb other than
the hand. This trait may be taken multiple times for
multiple limbs.

ANIMAL EMPATHY
Cost: 5 CP
  The character has an instinctive feel for handling
and working with non-sapient animals of all kinds.
Apply a +10 modifier to Animal Handling skill tests
or whenever the character makes a test to influence or
interact with an animal.

BRAVE
Cost: 10 CP
  This character does not scare easily, and will face
threats, intimidation, and certain bodily harm with-
out flinching. As a side effect, the character is not
always the best at gauging risks, especially when it
comes to factoring in danger to others. The charac-
ter receives a +10 modifier on all tests to resist fear
or intimidation.

COMMON SENSE
Cost: 10 CP
  The character has an innate sense of judgment that
cuts through other distractions and factors that might
cloud a decision. Once per game session, the player
may ask the gamemaster what choice they should
make or what course of action they should take, and
the gamemaster should give them solid advice based
on what the character knows. Alternately, if the
character is about to make a disastrous decision, the
gamemaster can use the character's free hint and warn
the player they are making a mistake.

DANGER SENSE
Cost: 10 CP
  The character has an intuitive sixth sense that warns
them of imminent threats. They receive a +10 modifier
on Surprise Tests (p. 204).

DIRECTION SENSE
Cost: 5 CP
   Somehow the character always knows which way
is up, north, etc., even when blinded. The character
receives a +10 modifier for figuring out complex di-
rections, reading maps, and remembering or retracing
a path they have taken.
