EIDETIC MEMORY (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP
  Much like a computer, the character has perfect
memory recall. They can remember anything they have
sensed, often even from a single glance. This works the
same as the eidetic memory implant (p. 301).

EXCEPTIONAL APTITUDE
Cost: 20 CP
  The character may raise one of their maximum
aptitude up to 10 points over the normal aptitude cap
(30 for flats, 35 for splicers, 40 for all others). Note
that this trait just raises the maximum, it does not
give the character more 10 aptitude points. This trait
may be taken only once.

EXPERT
Cost: 10 CP
  The character is a legend in the use of one particular
skill. The character may raise one learned skill over 80,
to a maximum of 90, during character creation. This
trait does not actually increase the skill, it just raises
the maximum. This trait may only be taken once.

FAST LEARNER
Cost: 10 CP
  The character improves skills and learns new
ones in half the time it normally takes (see Improv-
ing Skills, p. 152).

FIRST IMPRESSION
Cost: 10 CP
  The character has a way of charming or otherwise
making a good impression the first time they interact
with someone. This innate social lubricant allows them
to more readily deal with new contacts and slip right
into new social environments. Apply a +10 modifier
on social skill tests when the character is interacting
with another character for the first time only.

HYPER LINGUIST
Cost: 10 CP
   The character has an intuitive understanding of
linguistic structures that facilitates learning new
languages easily. The character requires one-third the
normal amount of time and experience to learn any
language (see Improving Skills, p. 152). The character
can also learn any human language in one day simply
by constant immersive exposure to it. Additionally,
the character receives a +10 modifier when attempting
to interpret languages they don't know.

IMPROVED IMMUNE SYSTEM (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
   The morph's immune system is robust and more
resistant to diseases, drugs, and toxins—even more
than basic bio-mods. At Level 1, apply a +10 modifier
whenever making a test to resist infection or the ef-
fects of a toxin or drug. At Level 2, increase this modi-
fier to +20. This trait is only available to biomorphs.
INNOCUOUS (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP
  In an age when exotic appearances and good looks
are commonplace, the morph's look is surprisingly
bland and undistinguished, in that cookie cutter sort of
way. The character's physical looks are so mundane that
others have a hard time picking them out of a crowd,
describing their appearance, or otherwise remember-
ing physical details. Apply a –10 modifier to all tests
made to spot, describe, or remember the character. This
modifier does not apply to psi or mesh searches.

LIMBER (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
   The morph is especially flexible and supple, capable
of graceful contortions and interesting positions. At
Level 1, the character can smoke with their toes, do the
splits, and squeeze into small, cramped spaces. At Level
2, they are double-jointed escape artists. Each level pro-
vides a +10 modifier to escaping from bonds, fitting into
narrow confines, and other acts relying on contortion or
flexibility. This trait is only available to biomorphs.

MATH WIZ
Cost: 10 CP
  The character can perform any feat of calculation,
including the most complex and advanced math-
ematics, instantly and with great precision, with the
same ease an unmodified human can add 2 + 3. The
character can calculate odds with great precision, find
correlations in numerical data, and perform similar
tasks with great ease. Apply a +30 modifier on tests
involving math calculations.

NATURAL IMMUNITY (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP
   The morph has a natural immunity to a specific
drug, disease, or toxin. When afflicted with that spe-
cific chemical, poison, or pathogen, the character re-
mains unaffected. At the gamemaster's discretion, this
immunity may not apply to certain agents. It may not
be applied to nanodrugs or nanotoxins. This trait is
only available to biomorphs.

PAIN TOLERANCE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
  The character has a high threshold for pain toler-
ance and is better at ignoring the effects of pain on
their abilities and concentration. Level 1 allows them
to ignore the –10 modifier from 1 wound. Level
2 allows them to ignore the –10 modifiers from 2
wounds. This trait is only available for biomorphs.

PATRON
Cost: 30 CP
   The character has an influential person in their
life who can be relied on for occasional support.
This could be a wealthy hyperelite family member, a
high-ranking triad boss, or an anarchist networker
with an unbeatable reputation. When called upon,
