this patron can pull strings on the character's behalf,
supply resources, introduce them to people they need
to know, and bail them out of trouble. The player
and gamemaster should work together to define ex-
actly who this NPC is and what their relationship
with the player character is. Specifically, the question
of why this patron is supporting the character should
be answered (familial obligation? childhood buddies?
the character saved their life once?). Gamemasters
should be careful that this trait does not get abused.
The patron should be an occasional help (probably
no more than once per game session at most) but is
not always at the character's beck-and-call. If the
character asks for too much, too often, they should
find the patron's support drying up. Additionally, the
character may need to take action to maintain the
relationship, such as undertaking a mission on the
patron's behalf. In fact, the character may only have
their patronage because they are on-call or of use to
the NPC in some way.

PSI
Cost: 20 CP (Level 1), 25 CP (Level 2)
  The character has been infected with the Watts-
MacLeod strain of the Exsurgent virus, which altered
their brain structure and opened the potential for their
mind to enhance their cognitive abilities and read and
manipulate the biological minds of others (see Psi,
p. 220). The character may purchase and learn psi
sleights (p. 223). At Level 1, the character may only
use psi-chi sleights. At Level 2, the character may use
both psi-chi and psi-gamma sleights.
  Though this trait is not very expensive, gamemasters
should not allow it to be abused. There are a number
of negative side effects to Watts-MacLeod infection,
noted under Psi Drawbacks, p. 220.
PSI CHAMELEON (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP
  The character's mental state is naturally resistant to
psi sensing. Apply a –10 modifier to any attempts to
locate or detect the character via psi sleights.

PSI DEFENSE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
  The character's mind is inherently resistant to
mental attacks. At Level 1, apply a +10 modifier to
all defense tests made against psi attacks. At Level 2,
apply a +20 modifier.

RAPID HEALER (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 CP
  The morph recovers from damage more quickly.
Reduce the timeframes for healing by half, as noted
on the Healing table, p. 208. This trait is only avail-
able to biomorphs.

RIGHT AT HOME
Cost: 10 CP
  The character chooses one type of morph (splicer,
neo-hominid, case, etc.). The character always
feels right at home in morphs of this type. When
resleeving into this type of morph, the character au-
tomatically adjusts to the new body, no Integration
or Alienation Test needed, suffering no penalties and
no mental stress.

SECOND SKIN
Cost: 15 CP
   If your character background or faction enforces a
restriction on your starting morph (for example, up-
lifts must start with an uplift morph), this trait allows
you to ignore that restriction and purchase a starting
morph of your choice.
