SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
Cost: 10 CP
  The character is very good at maintaining con-
tinuous partial awareness of the goings-on in their
immediate environment. In game terms, they do not
suffer the Distracted modifier on Perception Tests
to notice things even when their attention is focused
elsewhere, or when making Quick Perception Tests
during combat.

STRIKING LOOKS (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
   In an age where biosculpting is easy, good looks are
both cheap and commonplace. This morph, however,
possesses a physical look that can only be described as
striking and unusual, but also somehow alluring and
fascinating—even the gorgeous and chiseled glitterati
take notice. On social skill tests where the character's
beauty may affect the outcome, they receive a +10 (for
Level 1) or +20 (for Level 2) modifier. This modifier
is ineffective against xenomorphs or those with the
infolife or uplift backgrounds. This trait is only avail-
able to biomorphs.
   This modifier may be purchased for uplift morphs,
but at half the cost, and it is only effective against
characters with that specific uplift background (i.e.,
neo-avians, neo-hominids, etc.).
   The one drawback to this trait is that the character
is more easily noticed and remembered.

TOUGH (MORPH TRAIT)
Cost: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3) CP
   This morph is resilient than others of its type and
can take more physical abuse. Increase their Durabil-
ity by +5 per level (+5 at Level 1, +10 at Level 2, and
+15 at Level 3). This also increases Wound Threshold
by +1, +2, and +3 respectively.

ZOOSEMIOTICS
Cost: 5
  A character with this trait and the Psi trait does
not suffer a modifier when using psi sleights on non-
sentient or partly-sentient animal species.

NEGATIVE TRAITS
  Negative traits generally hinder the character and
apply negative modifiers in certain circumstances.

ADDICTION (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 5 CP (Minor), 10 CP (Moderate), or 20 CP
   (Major)
  Addiction comes in two forms: mental (affecting
the ego) and physical (affecting the biomorph). The
character or morph is addicted to a drug (p. 317),
stimulus (XP), or activity (mesh use) to a degree that
impacts the character's physical or mental health.
Players and gamemasters should work together to
agree on addictions that are appropriate for their
game. Addiction comes in three levels of severity:
minor, moderate, or major:
   Minor: A minor addiction is largely kept under
control—it does not ruin the character's life, though
it may create some difficulties. The character may not
even recognize or admit they have a problem. The
character must indulge the addiction at least once
a week, though they can go for longer without too
much difficulty. If they fail to get their weekly dose,
they suffer a –10 modifier on all actions until they get
their fix.
   Moderate: A moderate addiction is in full swing.
The character obviously has a problem, and must
satisfy the addiction at least once a day. If they fail
to do so, they may suffer mood swings, compulsive
behavior, physical sickness, or other side effects until
they indulge their craving. Apply a –20 modifier to
all of the character's actions until they get their fix.
Additionally, a character with this level of addiction
suffers a –5 DUR penalty.
   Major: A character with a major addiction is on
the rapid road to ruin. They face cravings every 6
hours, and suffer a –10 DUR penalty as their health
is affected. If they fail to get their regular dosage, they
suffer a –30 modifier on all actions until they do. If
their life hasn't already been ruined by their obsession,
it soon will be.

AGED (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  The morph is physically aged, and has not been
rejuvenated. Old morphs are increasingly uncom-
mon, though some people adopt them hoping to
gain an air of seniority and respectability. Reduce
the character's aptitude maximums by 5, and apply
a –10 modifier on all physical actions.
  This trait may only be applied to flat and splicer
morphs.

BAD LUCK
Bonus: 30 CP
   Due to some inexplicable cosmic coincidence,
things seem to go wrong around the character. The
gamemaster is given a pool of Moxie points equal
to the character's Moxie stat, which also refreshes
at the same rate as the character's Moxie. Only the
gamemaster may utilize this Moxie, however, and
the purpose is to use it against the character. In other
words, the gamemaster can use this bad Moxie to
cause the character to automatically fail, flip-flop a
roll, and so on. To reflect the black cloud that fol-
lows the character, the gamemaster can even use this
bad Moxie against the character's friends and allies,
when they are doing something with or related to
the character, though this should be used sparingly.
Gamemasters who might be reluctant to sabotage the
character should remember that the player asked for
it by purchasing this trait.
