BLACKLISTED
Bonus: 5 or 20 CP
   The character has managed to get themselves
blacklisted in certain circles, whether they actually
did something to deserve it or not. In game terms, the
character is barred from having a Rep score higher
than 0 in one particular reputation network. People
within that network will refuse to help the character
out of fear of reprisals and ruining their own reputa-
tion. The bonus for this trait is 20 CP if chosen for the
rep network pertaining to the character's own starting
faction, and 5 CP if chosen for any other.

BLACK MARK
Bonus: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2),
   or 30 (Level 3) CP
  At some point in the character's past, they managed
to do something that earned a black mark on their
reputation. For some reason, no matter what they do,
this black mark cannot be shaken off and continues to
haunt their interactions. In game terms, the character
picks one faction. Every time they interact with this
faction (such as a Networking Test) or with an NPC
from this faction (Social Skill Tests) who knows who
the character is, they suffer a –10 modifier per level.

COMBAT PARALYSIS
Bonus: 20 CP
  The character has an unfortunate habit of freezing
in combat or stressful situations, like a deer caught in
headlights. Anytime violence breaks out around the
character, or they are surprised, the character must
make a Willpower Test in order to act or respond in
any way. If they fail the test, they lose their action and
simply stand there, remaining incapable of reacting to
the situation.

EDITED MEMORIES
Bonus: 10 CP
  At some point in the character's past, the charac-
ter had certain memories strategically removed or
otherwise lost to them. This may have been done to
intentionally forget an unpleasant or shameful experi-
ence or to make a break with the past. The memory
may also have been lost by an unexpected death (with
no recent backup), or it may have been erased against
the character's will. Whatever the case, the memory
should bear some importance, and there should exist
either evidence of what happened or NPCs who know
the full story. This is a tool the gamemaster can use to
haunt the character at some future point with ghosts
from their past.

ENEMY
Bonus: 10 CP
  At some point in their past, the character made
an enemy for life who continues to haunt them. The
gamemaster and player should work out the details on
this enmity, and the gamemaster should use the enemy
as an occasional threat, surprise, and hindrance.
FEEBLE
Bonus: 20 CP
  The character is particularly weak with one aptitude.
That aptitude must be purchased at a rating lower
than 5, and may never be upgraded during character
advancement. The aptitude maximum is 10, no matter
what morph the character is wearing.

FRAIL (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
   This morph is not as resilient as others of its type.
Its Durability is reduced by 5 per level. This also re-
duces Wound Threshold by 1 or 2, respectively.

GENETIC DEFECT (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP or 20 CP
  The morph is not genefixed, and in fact suffers
from a genetic disorder or other impairing mutation.
The player and gamemaster should agree on a defect
appropriate to their game. Some possibilities include:
heart disease, diabetes, cystic fibrosis, sickle-cell dis-
ease, hypertension, hemophilia, or color blindness.
A genetic disorder that creates minor complications
and/or occasional health problems would be worth
10 CP, a defect that significantly impairs the charac-
ter's regular functioning or that inflicts chronic health
problems is worth 20 CP. The gamemaster must de-
termine the exact effects of the disorder on gameplay,
as appropriate.
  This trait is only available for flats.

IDENTITY CRISIS
Bonus: 10 CP
   The character's ego has trouble adapting itself to
the changed look of a new morph—they are stuck
with the mental image of their original body, and
simply do not grow accustomed to their new face(s).
As a result, the character has difficulty identifying
themselves in the mirror, photos, surveillance feeds,
etc. They frequently forget the look and shape of their
current morph, acting inappropriately, describing
themselves by their original body, forgetting to duck
when walking through doorways, etc. This is primar-
ily a roleplaying trait, but the gamemaster may apply
appropriate modifiers (usually –10) to tests affected
by this inability to adapt.

ILLITERATE
Bonus: 10 CP
  The character knows how to speak, but has diffi-
culty reading or writing. Due to the entoptic-saturated
and icon-driven nature of transhuman society, they are
able to get by quite comfortably with this handicap.
Reduce the character's Language skills by half (round
down) whenever reading or writing.

IMMORTALITY BLUES
Bonus: 10 CP
  The character has lived so long—over 100 years—
they're bored with life and now have difficulty
