motivating themselves. They were old when longevity
treatments first became available, survived the Fall,
and continue to soldier onward—though they find
it increasingly harder to care, take interest in things
around them, or fear final death. The character only
receives half the Moxie and Rez Points award for
completing motivational goals.
   This trait may not be purchased by characters with
the infolife or uplift backgrounds.

IMPLANT REJECTION (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 5 (Level 1) or 15 (Level 2) CP
   This morph does not accept implants well. At Level
1, any implants acquired are more expensive as they
required specialized anti-rejection treatments. Increase
the Cost category of the implant by one. At Level 2,
the morph cannot accept implants of any kind.

INCOMPETENT
Bonus: 10 CP
  The character is completely incapable of perform-
ing a particular chosen active skill, no matter any
training they may receive. They may not buy this skill
during character creation or later advancement, and
the modifier for defaulting to the linked aptitude of
this particular skill is –10. This may not be used for
exotic weapon skills, and should be used for a skill
that could be of use to the character.

LEMON (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  This trait is only available for synthetic morphs.
This particular morph has some unfixable flaws. Once
per game session (preferably at a time that will maxi-
mize drama or hilarity), the gamemaster can call for
the character to make a MOX x 10 Test (using their
current Moxie score). If the character fails, the morph
immediately suffers 1 wound resulting from some me-
chanical failure, electrical glitch, or other breakdown.
This wound may be repaired as normal.

LOW PAIN TOLERANCE (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 20 CP
   Pain is the character's enemy. The character has
a very low threshold for pain tolerance and is more
severely impaired when suffering. Increase the modi-
fier for each wound take by an additional –10 (so
the character suffers –20 with one wound, –40 with
another, and –60 with a third). Additionally, the
character suffers a –30 modifier on any test involving
pain resistance. This morph version of this trait is only
available for biomorphs.

MENTAL DISORDER
Bonus: 10 CP
  You have a psychological disorder from a previous
traumatic experience in your life. Choose one of the
disorders listed on p. 211.
MILD ALLERGY (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 5 CP
  The morph is allergic to a specific chosen allergen
(dust, dander, plant pollen, certain chemicals) and suf-
fers mild discomfort when exposed to it (eye irritation,
sneezing, difficult breathing). Apply a –10 modifier to
all tests while the character remains exposed. This
trait is only available for biomorphs.

MODIFIED BEHAVIOR
Bonus: 5 (Level 1), 10 (Level 2), or 20 (Level 3) CP
   The character has been conditioned via time-
accelerated behavioral control psychosurgery. This is
common among ex-felons, who have been conditioned
to respond to a specific idea or activity with vehement
horror and disgust, but may have occurred for some
other reason or even been self-inflicted. At Level 1, the
chosen behavior is either limited or boosted, at Level
2 it is either blocked or encouraged, and at Level 3 it
is expunged or enforced (see p. 231 for details). This
trait should only be allowed for behaviors that are
either limited or, if encouraged, impact the character
in a negative way.

MORPHING DISORDER
Cost: 10 (Level 1), 20 (Level 2), or 30 (Level 3) CP
  Adapting to new morphs is particularly challeng-
ing for this character. The character suffers a –10
modifier per level on Integration Tests and Alien-
ation Tests (p. 272).

NEURAL DAMAGE
Bonus: 10 CP
   The character has suffered some type of neurologi-
cal damage that simply cannot be cured. The affliction
is now part of the character's ego and remains with
them even when remorphing. This damage may have
been inherited, it may have resulted from a poorly de-
signed morph or implant, or it may have been inflicted
by one of the TITAN nanovirii that targeted neural
systems during the Fall (p. 384). The gamemaster and
player should agree on a specific disorder appropriate
to their game. Some possibilities are:

 - Partial aphasia (difficulty communicating or
   using words)
 - Color blindness
 - Amusica (inability to make or understand music)
 - Synaesthesia
 - Logorrhoea (excessive use of words)
 - Loss of face recognition
 - Loss of depth perception (double range
   modifiers)
 - Repetitive behavior
 - Mood swings
 - The inability to shift attention quickly

  The gamemaster may decide to inflict modifiers
resulting from this affliction as appropriate.
