NO CORTICAL STACK (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  The morph lacks the cortical stack that is common
to morphs of its type. This means the character cannot
be resleeved from the cortical stack if the character
dies, they can only be resleeved from a standard
backup. This trait is not available for flats.

OBLIVIOUS
Bonus: 10 CP
  The character is particularly oblivious to events
around them or anything other than what their at-
tention is focused on. They suffer a –10 modifier
to Surprise Tests and their modifier for being Dis-
tracted is –30 rather than the usual –20 (see Basic
Perception, p. 190).

ON THE RUN
Bonus: 10 CP
  The character is wanted by the authorities of a
particular habitat/station or faction, who continue to
actively search for the character. They either commit-
ted a crime or somehow displeased someone in power.
The character deals with that faction in question at
their own risk, and may occasionally be forced to deal
with bounty hunters.

PSI VULNERABILITY (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  Something about the character's mind makes
them particularly vulnerable to psi attack. They
suffer a –10 modifier when resisting such attacks.
The morph version of this trait may only be taken
by biomorphs.

REAL WORLD NAIVETÉ
Bonus: 10 CP
   Due to their background, the character has very
limited personal experience with the real (physical)
world—or they have spent so much time in simul-
space that their functioning in real life is impaired.
They lack an understanding of many physical proper-
ties, social cues, and other factors that people with
standard human upbringings take for granted. This
lack of common sense may lead the character to
misunderstand how a device works or to misinterpret
someone's body language.
   Once per game session, the gamemaster may in-
tentionally mislead the character when giving them
a description about some thing or some social in-
teraction. This falsehood represents the character's
misunderstanding of the situation, and should be
roleplayed appropriately, even if the player realizes
the character's mistake.
   This trait should only be available to characters
with the infolife or reinstantiated backgrounds,
though the gamemaster may allow it for characters
who have extensive virtual reality/XP use in their
personal histories.
SEVERE ALLERGY (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 (uncommon) or 20 (common) CP
   The morph's biochemistry suffers a severe allergic
reaction (anaphylaxis) when it comes into contact
(touched, inhaled, or ingested) with a specific allergen.
The allergen may be common (dust, dander, plant pollen,
certain foods, latex) or uncommon (certain drugs, insect
stings). The player and gamemaster should agree on an
allergen that fits the game. If exposed to the allergen,
the character breaks into hives, has difficulty to breath-
ing (–30 modifier to all actions), and must make a DUR
Test or go into anaphylactic shock (dying of respiratory
failure in 2d10 minutes unless medical care is applied).
This trait is only available to biomorphs.

SLOW LEARNER
Bonus: 10 CP
  New skills are not easy for this character to pick
up. The character takes twice as long as normal to
improve skills or learn new ones (p. 152).

SOCIAL STIGMA (EGO OR MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
   An unfortunate aspect of the character's back-
ground means that they suffer from a stigma in
certain social situations. They may be sleeved in
a morph viewed with repugnance, be a survivor of
the infamous Lost generation, or may be an AGI in
a post-Fall society plagued by fear of artificial intelli-
gence. In social situations where the character's nature
is known to someone who view that nature with dis-
taste, fear, or repugnance, they suffer a –10 to –30
modifier (gamemaster's discretion) to social skill tests.

TIMID
Bonus: 10 CP
 This character frightens easily. They suffer a –10
modifier when resisting fear or intimidation.

UNATTRACTIVE (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP (Level 1), 20 CP (Level 2), 30 CP (Level 3)
   In a time when good looks are easily purchased,
this morph is conspicuously ugly. As unattractiveness
is increasingly associated with being poor, backward,
or genetically defective, responses to a lack of good
looks range from distaste to horror. The character suf-
fers a –10 modifier on social tests for Level 1, –20 for
Level 2, and –30 for Level 3.
   Only biomorphs may take this trait. This modifier
does not apply to interactions with xenomorphs or
those with the infolife or uplift backgrounds. This
modifier may be purchased for uplift morphs, but at
half the bonus, and it is only effective against char-
acters with that specific uplift background (i.e., neo-
avians, neo-hominids, etc.).

UNCANNY VALLEY (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  There is a point where synthetic human looks
become uncannily realistic and human-seeming, but
