they remain just different enough that their looks
seem creepy or even repulsive—a phenomenon called
the “uncanny valley.” Morphs whose looks fall into
this range suffer a –10 modifier on social skill tests
when dealing with humans. This modifier does not
apply to interactions with xenomorphs or those with
the infolife or uplift backgrounds.

UNFIT (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP (Level 1), 20 CP (Level 2)
  The morph is either not optimized for health and/or
just in bad shape. Reduce the aptitude maximums for
Coordination, Reflexes, and Somatics by 5 (Level 1 )
or 10 (Level 2).

VR VERTIGO
Bonus: 10 CP
   The character experiences intense vertigo and
nausea when interfacing with any type of virtual real-
ity, XP, or simulspace. Augmented reality has no effect,
but VR inflicts a –30 modifier to all of the character's
actions. Prolonged use of VR (gamemaster's discre-
tion) may actually incapacitate the character should
they fail a WIL x 2 Test.

WEAK IMMUNE SYSTEM (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 (Level 1) or 20 (Level 2) CP
   The morph's immune system is susceptible to diseas-
 es, drugs, and toxins. At Level 1, apply a –10 modifier
whenever making a test to resist infection or the effects
of a toxin or drug. At Level 2, increase this modifier to
–20. This trait is only available to biomorphs.

ZERO-G NAUSEA (MORPH TRAIT)
Bonus: 10 CP
  This morph suffers from space sickness and does
not fair well in zero-gravity. The character suffers a
–10 modifier in any microgravity climate. Addition-
ally, whenever the character is first getting acclimated
or anytime they must endure excessive movement in
microgravity, they must make a WIL Test or spend 1
hour incapacitated by nausea per 10 points of MoF.



CHARACTER ADVANCEMENT
As characters accomplish goals and gather experience
during gameplay, they accumulate Rez Points (see
Awarding Rez Points, p. 384). Rez Points may be used
to improve the character's skills, aptitudes, and other
characteristics per the following rules. The costs for
spending Rez Points for advancement are the same as
the costs for spending Customization Points.

CHANGING MOTIVATION
It is only natural that over time a character's driving
goals and interests will change. The character may
reach a turning point where they feel certain personal
agendas have been fulfilled and it is time to move on,
or they have failed and need to be discarded. New
urgencies or philosophies may have entered the
character's life, or the character may have become
disenchanted with particular memes and ideas they
previously took to heart.
   Changing a character's motivation does not cost
Rez Points, but it is something that should only
happen in accordance with roleplaying and with
life-altering events. Players should not be allowed
to simply switch their motivations at whim, there
should be a driving reason or explanation for doing
so. For this reason, changing a motivation should only
happen when the player and gamemaster discuss the
matter and both agree that the swap is appropriate to
the character's development and circumstances.
   If these conditions are met, the character simply
drops a previously held motivation and takes on a
new one. Only one motivation should be switched
out at a time.

SWITCHING MORPHS
Resleeving—switching from one morph to another—
is handled as an in-character interaction, not with Rez
Points. See Resleeving, p. 271.

IMPROVING APTITUDES
Aptitudes may be raised with Rez Points at the cost of
10 RP per aptitude point. This represents the charac-
ter's improvement in their core characteristics, gained
from exercise, learning, and experience. Aptitudes may
not be raised above 30 (bonuses from morphs, im-
plants, traits, or other sources do not count towards
this total).
  Raising the value of an aptitude also raises the
value of all linked skills by an equivalent amount. If
this raises any linked skills over 60, an additional 1
RP must be spent per linked skill over 60.

IMPROVING SKILLS
Characters may also spend Rez Points to increase
existing skills or learn new ones. To improve an ex-
isting skill, the character must have successfully used
that skill in the recent past or must actively practice
it in order to get better, perhaps with the aid of an
instructor. In the case of Knowledge skills, this means
actively studying. As a rough timeframe, this should
require around 1 week of learning per skill point. A
number of educational resources are freely available


       SPENDING REZ POINTS
      15 RP = 1 Moxie point
      10 RP = 1 aptitude point
       5 RP = 1 psi sleight
       5 RP = 1 specialization
       2 RP = 1 skill point (61-99)
       1 RP = 1 skill point (up to 60)
       1 RP = 10 Rep
       1 RP = 1,000 Credits
