LLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■S



S
 In a setting where physical looks and capabilities are
 easily changed at the push of a button, who you are and
 what you know is more important than any inborn abil-
 ity. Skills represent the knowledge your character has,
 the accumulated set of experience, education, and in-
 herent know-how possessed by each and every sentient
 transhuman in Eclipse Phase. They are what allow you
 to sneak into a hypercorp station, disable the security
 systems, hack the mesh hub, and then impersonate secu-
 rity personnel to make your escape. Your skills represent
 the one thing you have no matter what you look like or
 where you find yourself. When your characters explore
 what they can do, their skills, or lack thereof, often de-
 termine the margin between success and failure.
    Having a well-rounded set of skills is vital to survival
 and success in Eclipse Phase. The skills below encompass
 a wide selection of talents, enough so that each character
 can be unique in their abilities and knowledge.



 SKILLS OVERVIEW
 Skills are divided into aptitudes and learned skills (see
 Character Skills, p. 123). Most (but not all) learned
 skills are built on and linked to an aptitude. If a
 character lacks the specific skill needed in a situation,
 they may default to the linked aptitude. You may also
 choose to specialize in certain skills (see Specializa-
 tions, p. 123), reflecting an enhanced knowledge of a
 particular aspect of a certain skill.

 CORE SKILLS: APTITUDES
 Aptitudes represent inherent skills and abilities acquired
 at birth or during the course of growing up. Aptitudes
 are sometimes used for tests, but their primary use is
 determining the starting point at which learned skills
 are developed. Aptitudes determine the starting value
 of their linked skills. For example, a character with
 Somatics aptitude 10 who wishes to purchase points
 in the Freerunning skill (which is linked to Somatics)
 would start with a Freerunning rank of 10 and then
 buy additionally points in that skill.
   Aptitudes are also used when a character doesn't
 posses knowledge of a needed skill (see Defaulting, p.
 116). Aptitudes represent the basic knowledge that a
 character has acquired regarding rudimentary use of that
 skill. They may not have ever received any formal train-
 ing with the skill, but they can still attempt to use it.
   Aptitudes range in value from 1 to 30, with 10 being
 the unaugmented human average and 15 representing
 the average of most genetically modified transhumans.
 Since aptitudes represent untrained ability, they are
 capped at a maximum rating of 30.
   There are seven different aptitudes that all players
 possess. These aptitudes are purchased during charac-
 ter creation (p. 128), but depending on the morph the
LLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■SKILLS■S
                         SKILLS■
                         SKILLS■S

                                                                 6


 character is currently inhabiting, they may find their ap-
 titudes capped by the quality of the morph (see p. 124).

 LEARNED SKILLS
 A player's learned skills are the most important part of
 their character, representing the acquired knowledge
 they carry with them from morph to morph, knowl-
 edge that plays a fundamental role in helping define
 the person's ego. Learned skills encompass nearly any
 skill that you might need to use in Eclipse Phase, and
 they range in value from 0 to 99.
   All learned skills have a linked aptitude that is
 used to calculate their initial value, and which is
 also defaulted to if the player does not have that
 particular skill.

 SKILL CATEGORIES
 Each learned skill is classified as either an Active skill
 or a Knowledge skill. Active skills represent skills
 that typically require physical actions and are used in
 action scenes within game play. Knowledge skills are
 more knowledge-based and intellectual, representing
 ideas and facts. Knowledge skills may play a less dra-
 matic role in certain action-oriented game play mo-
 ments, but they flesh out the character's background
 and interests and are integral to roleplaying interac-
 tions. Active and Knowledge skills are purchased
 separately during character creation.
   Active skills are further divided into Combat,
 Mental, Physical, Psi, Social, Technical, and Vehicle
 skills. Certain traits and abilities may apply to specific
 categories.

 FIELD SKILLS
 Some learned skills are field skills, meaning that when
 this skill is chosen a particular field of emphasis must
 also be selected. For example, the skill of Academics
 requires the character to specify a specific academic
 discipline in which they are knowledgeable, such as
 Biology, Chemistry, or Xenosociology. Field skills are
 written as “[skill]: [field];” for example: “Art: Paint-
 ing.” Field skills can be taken multiple times, choosing
 a different area of emphasis each time, reflecting skills
 in different fields; that is to say, each field is a separate
 skill. Several suggested fields are listed for each field
 skill, but gamemasters and players may also cooperate
 to create others that fit their games.
    Field skills may also have specializations; for exam-
 ple, Professional: Accounting (Money Laundering).

 PSI SKILLS
 Psi refers to the ability to perceive and manipulate
 biological minds via psi waves and/or other inexpli-
 cable phenomena. Due to the uniqueness of this ability,
 characters that wish to wield psi must acquire the Psi
