trait (p. 147). Psi use also requires a number of special-
ized skills (Control, Psi Assault, and Sense) that reflect
special training characters acquire to tap into their psi
powers. Psi skills may not be defaulted on; the only
way to use a psi skill is to possess the trait along with
training in that skill. For more details, see Psi, p. 220.

SPECIALIZATIONS
Any character may opt to specialize in a given skill
(see Specializations, p. 123). This specialization reflects
increased knowledge in one particular aspect of the
skill. Many of the skills offered below include sample
specializations. Gamemasters and players are encour-
aged to develop other specialization ideas together for
their campaigns.
   Specialization provides a +10 modifier when
using that skill in a situation appropriate to that
specialization.



USING SKILLS
Whenever a character wants to do something using
a skill, they must succeed at a skill test (see Making
Tests, p. 115). The difficulty of the action is applied
as a modifier, as are any other extenuating circum-
stances that may affect the test (see Difficulty and
Modifiers, p. 115). As with other types of tests, all skill
tests are successful when the character rolls less than
or equal to the test's target number after any modi-
fiers have been applied. In the case of skill tests, the
target number is the character's skill rating with that
particular skill. Modifiers representing difficulty and
other factors are applied directly to the target number
(see Difficulty and Modifiers, p. 115). A roll of a 00 is
always a success, regardless of modifiers, and a result
of 99 is always a failure, again despite any modifiers
that may increase a character's target number over
100. Standard critical success and failure rules apply
to skill tests (see Criticals: Rolling Doubles, p. 116),
so any time a character rolls a double (i.e. 00, 11, 22,
33, etc.) they score a critical success or failure.

DEFAULTING
Sometimes you lack the skill needed in a certain situ-
ation. In these instances, characters may default their
skill test to the linked aptitude. This reflects the fact
that most learned skills are developed from some sort
of baseline physical ability. Even though you may not
know how to do something, you've likely seen how
it's done at some point or have some idea of how to
do it, or can at least take a shot at it. Naturally, you're
not as good as someone who has training in that skill,
but it still allows you to make an attempt.
   Not all skills can be defaulted. Some skills are
simply too complex or obscure, or demand special
knowledge or ability, for someone to attempt their
use untrained. For example, brain surgery or most psi
skills are simply beyond anyone who doesn't have that
ability or the knowledge of what they're attempting.
DEFAULTING TO FIELD SKILLS
In some cases, a character may not possess the par-
ticular field skill that a test calls for, but they may be
skilled in another related field. For example, a test to
conduct an alien autopsy might call for an Academics:
Xenobiology roll, but a character who doesn't have
that skill may be allowed to default to Academics:
Biology instead. The gamemaster decides if and when
to allow this, perhaps applying a modifier to the test
based on the difference between fields.

DEFAULTING TO RELATED SKILLS
If the gamemaster allows it, characters may default to
a related skill that also has some relevance to the test
at hand. For example, a character skilled in Kinetic
Weapons might not be trained in the use of a laser, but
they know enough to point at the target and pull the
trigger. Likewise, a character might not be skilled in
Investigation, but the gamemaster could still allow
them to use their Perception skill instead in order to
realize that a body had been moved from the place
where it had been shot. In situations like this, when the
gamemaster allows defaulting to a related skill, a –30
modifier should be applied to the test.


  Srit is wandering through a black market souk on
  Mars, trying to find a particular piece of sensory
  equipment. The gamemaster calls for a Scrounging
                                                            EXAMPLE




  Test, but Srit does not have that skill. She could
  default her INT of 22, but instead she asks the
  gamemaster if she can default to the related skill
  of Perception, which she has at 82. The gamemas-
  ter agrees, and so Srit rolls against a target number
  of 52 (82 – 30).


COMPLEMENTARY SKILLS
Sometimes more than one skill may apply to a particu-
lar test, or knowledge in one area can aid your skill
in another. In this case, the gamemaster may apply a
modifier to the skill test based on the strength of the
complementing skill, as noted on the Complementary
Skill Bonus table.


  Dav is hoping to persuade a brinker pilot to take him
  to an isolated habitat that doesn't welcome visitors.
  To impress upon the pilot that he is a friend of these
                                                            EXAMPLE




  particular isolates, he calls on his knowledge of their
  particular cultural practices (Interests: Religious
  Cults skill at 45). The gamemaster allows this and
  applies a +20 modifier to Dav's Persuasion Test.



COMPLEMENTARY SKILL BONUS
       SKILL RATING                          MODIFIER
            01–30                               +10
            31–60                               +20
             61+                                +30
