BRUTE STRENGTH
Any test that involves simple brute strength can be
handled as an SOM x 3 Test. Use this when smashing
down a door, breaking an item in half, engaging in a
tug-of-war, or lifting and carrying a heavy item.

CATCHING THROWN OBJECTS
Use REF + (COO x 2) any time you need to catch a
thrown or dropped object, such as catching a baseball,
saving a priceless vase from shattering, or throwing
back a grenade (see p. 200).

COMPOSURE AND RESOLVE
Various game situations may frighten your character,
turn their stomach, horrify them, or rattle them to the
core of their being. Use WIL x 3 to determine if your
character can hold their ground, keep it down, and
pull themselves together.

ESCAPE ARTIST
If a character wants to slip free of physical bonds (such
as ropes or handcuffs) or otherwise contort themselves
(such as wriggling out from under a collapsed wall or
an overturned vehicle), an Escape Artist Test may be
called for using the character's COO + SOM. Apply
modifiers appropriate to the difficulty of the situation.
At the gamemaster's discretion, escaping from some
restraining situations may be considered a Task Action
with an appropriate timeframe.

HAVING AN IDEA
Sometimes the players miss the obvious, or their per-
sonal mindset or biases cause them to misinterpret a
situation or understand events in a way different from
how the actual character would. In cases like this, the
gamemaster can call for an INT x 3 or COG x 3 roll
(whichever is more appropriate) to determine if the
character gets an idea that will help them along. This
test should be used sparingly, and only for assessing
the character's interpretation of obvious and known
facts and details.

MEMORIZING AND REMEMBERING
Memories are what egos use to maintain continuity of
self from morph to morph, but humans are notorious
for remembering things incorrectly. Whenever char-
acters attempt to recall a memory or memorize some
piece of information, use COG x 3 to determine how
well they succeed. Note that characters with eidetic
memory (p. 146 or 301) or mnemonic augmentation
(p. 307) have perfect memory, so no test is required.
