  Cryptography, Economics, Engineering, Genetics,
  Geology, Linguistics, Mathematics, Memetics,
  Nanotechnology, Old Earth History, Physics, Politi-
  cal Science, Psychology, Sociology, Xeno-archeology,
  Xenolinguistics, Zoology
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

ANIMAL HANDLING
Type: Active, Social
 Linked Aptitude: SAV
   What it is: Skilled animal handlers are able to
 train and control a wide variety of natural and trans-
 genic animals, including partial uplifts. Though many
 animal species went extinct during the Fall, a few
“ark” and zoo habitats keep some species alive, and
 many others can be resurrected from genetic samples.
 Exotic animals are considered a sign of prestige
 among the hypercorp elites, and guard animals are
 occasionally used to protect high-security installations.
 Likewise, many habitats and settlements employ small
 armies of partially uplifted, genetically modified, and
 behavior-controlled creatures for sanitation or other
 purposes. Many new and strange breeds of animal are
 created daily to serve a variety of roles.
   When you use it: Animal Handling is used whenever
you are trying to manipulate an animal, whether your
 intent is to calm it down, keep it from attacking, in-
 timidate it, acquire its trust, or goad it into attacking.
Your Margin of Success determines how effective you
 are at convincing the creature. At the gamemaster's
 discretion, modifiers may be applied to the test. Like-
wise, winning an animal over may sometimes take
 time, and so could be handled as a Task Action with a
 timeframe of five minutes or more.
 Specializations: Per animal species (dogs, horses, smart
    rats, etc.)

TRAINING ANIMALS
Training animals is a time-consuming task requiring
repeated efforts and rewards to reinforce the trained
behavior. Treat this as a Task Action with a timeframe
of one day to one month, depending on the complex-
ity of the action. Apply modifiers to this test based on
the relative intelligence of the animal being trained,
how domestic it is, and the complexity of the task.
   Once an animal has been trained, commanding
it is treated as a Simple Success Test (p. 118) except
for unusual or stressful situations, in which case the
trainer receives a +30 modifier on their Animal Han-
dling Tests when convincing the animal to complete
the trained action.

ART: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Art confers the ability to create and eval-
uate artistic endeavors. This is a particularly useful
skill in Eclipse Phase, especially in the post-scarcity
economies where creativity and vision can be a key
component to a character's reputation.
  When you use it: The Art skill can be used to either
create a new work of art or to duplicate an existing
piece of art in the hopes of passing it off as your own.
The skill can also determine the approximate value of
a piece of art either on the open market, for monetary
exchange systems, or in terms of reputation for the
artist.
Sample Fields: Architecture, Criticism, Dance, Drama,
  Drawing, Painting, Performance, Sculpture, Simul-
  space Design, Singing, Speech, Writing
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

BEAM WEAPONS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
What it is: The Beam Weapons skill covers the usage
and maintenance of standard coherent beam energy
weapons such as lasers, particle beam weapons,
plasma rifles, and microwave weapons (p. 338).
  When you use it: A player uses their Beam Weap-
ons skill whenever attacking with a beam weapon in
combat (p. 191). Beam Weapons may also be used for
tests involving maintenance of the weapon, but not
for repairing or modifying the weapon (that would be
Hardware: Armorer skill).
Specializations: Lasers, Microwave Weapons, Particle
  Beam Weapons, Plasma Rifles

BLADES
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: The Blades skill covers the usage and
maintenance of standard bladed weapons (p. 334).
  When you use it: A player uses their Blades skill
whenever attacking with a blade weapon in melee
combat (p. 191). Blades may also be used for tests
involving maintenance of the weapon, but not for
repairing or modifying the weapon (that would be
Hardware: Armorer skill). This skill is used for blade
weapons implanted in the body at the end of an ap-
pendage (hands, forearms, feet, octomorph arms, etc.),
but the Exotic Melee Weapon skill is used for blades
implanted in other parts of the body.
Specializations: Axes, Implant Blades, Knives, Swords

CLIMBING
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: Climbing is the skill of ascending and
descending sheer surfaces with or without the aid of
specialized equipment.
  When you use it: This skill is used whenever a char-
acter wishes to scale a climbable surface. For heights
greater than one story, climbing is handled as a Task
Action with a timeframe equivalent to one meter per
Action Phase. For rappelling, the timeframe for de-
scent is 50 meters per Action Turn. Climbing gear (p.
332-333) provides appropriate modifiers.
Specializations: Assisted, Freehand, Rappelling
