CLUBS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: The Clubs skill covers the usage and
maintenance of standard blunt melee weapons such
as batons or sticks (see p. 334).
  When you use it: Players use their Clubs skill when-
ever they want to attack with a blunt weapon in melee
combat (p. 191). The Clubs skill may also be used for
tests involving maintenance of the weapon, but not
for repairing or modifying the weapon (that would be
Hardware: Armorer skill).
Specializations: Batons, Hammers, Staffs

CONTROL
Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: WIL
  What it is: Control is the use of psi to manipulate
individuals or actively penetrate their mental pro-
cesses. This skill is only available to characters with
the Psi trait (p. 147).
  When you use it: Use Control when taking a psionic
tour through a foreign ego—messing around included.
See Psi, p. 220.
Specializations: By sleight

DECEPTION
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Deception is your ability to act, bluff,
con, fast talk, lie, misrepresent, and pretend. Accom-
plished users of deception are able to convince anyone
of nearly anything. This skill does not include using a
physical disguise to appear to be another person (the
Impersonate skill covers that area).
  When you use it: Use this skill whenever you want
to deceive someone with words or gestures. A success-
ful skill test means that you have passed off your de-
ception convincingly. At the gamemaster's discretion,
someone who is actively alert for signs of deception
may make an Opposed Test using the Kinesics skill.
Specializations: Acting, Bluffing, Fast Talk

DEMOLITIONS
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)
  What it is: Demolitions covers the use of controlled
explosives.
  When you use it: Use it when making, placing, and
disarming explosives and explosive devices. See De-
molitions, p. 197.
Specializations: Commercial Explosives, Disarming,
  Improvised Explosives

DISGUISE
  Type: Active, Physical
  Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Disguise is the art of physically altering
your appearance so that you look like someone else.
This includes both the use of props (wigs, contacts,
skin pigments) and the altering of subtle physical
characteristics (gait, posture, poise).
  When you use it: Use Disguise to fool someone into
thinking you're someone you're not. This can be used
to hide your identity or to make yourself look like
someone in particular. When used against someone
who knows your true look or the appearance of the
person you are imitating, this is handled as an Op-
posed Test against Perception or Investigation.
Specializations: Cosmetic, Theatrical

EXOTIC MELEE WEAPON: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: The Exotic Melee Weapon skill covers
the use and maintenance of all melee weapons not
covered by the Clubs or Blades skills (see p. 334).
  When you use it: Use the Exotic Melee Weapon skill
when attacking someone with an exotic melee weapon
in melee combat (p. 191).
Sample Fields: Morning Star, Spear, Whip
Specializations: N/A

EXOTIC RANGED WEAPON: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
  What it is: Exotic Ranged Weapon skill includes
the use and maintenance of all ranged weapons not
covered by the Beam, Flechette, Kinetic, Sonic, or
Throwing Weapons skills.
  When you use it: Use this skill whenever attacking with
an exotic ranged weapon in ranged combat (p. 191).
Sample Fields: Blowgun, Crossbow, Flamethrower,
  Slingshot
Specializations: N/A

FLIGHT
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
   What it is: Flight is the skill of using your body to
fly. This skill is used when sleeved in or jamming a
winged or otherwise flight-capable morph (manual and
remote-control flight are handled using Pilot skill).
   When you use it: Use this skill whenever you need to
make an aerial maneuver, land in difficult conditions,
maintain your course in steep winds, or otherwise
keep from crashing or falling.
Specializations: Diving, Landing, Takeoff, specific
   maneuvers

FRAY
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: REF
  What it is: Fray is the ability to get out of the way
of incoming attacks, debris, or inconvenient passers-by.
Characters that have a high Fray score are able to react
quicker than others when dodging or maneuvering.
  When you use it: Whenever a character is physically
attacked by an opponent in melee combat, roll Fray to
avoid getting hit (see p. 191). Fray may also be used
