to dodge other events that may harm the character,
such as avoiding a charging vehicle or jumping out of
the way of a collapsing stack of crates.
Specializations: Blades, Clubs, Full Defense, Unarmed

FREE FALL
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: REF
  What it is: Free Fall is about moving in free-fall and
microgravity environments.
  When you use it: Use whenever you need to maneu-
ver in a zero-g situation, such as propelling yourself
across a large open space or making sure you don't
accidentally send yourself spinning off into space.
Free Fall is also used when moving with spacesuit
maneuvering jets and when parachuting.
Specializations: Microgravity, Parachuting, Vacsuits

FREERUNNING
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
   What it is: Freerunning is part running, part gymnas-
tics. It is about moving fast, maneuvering over/under/
around/through obstacles, and placing your body
where it needs to go. Freerunning/parkour is a popular
pastime in habitats where open space is limited.
   When you use it: Use Freerunning whenever you
need to overcome an obstacle via movement, such
as hurdling a railing, rolling across the hood of a
car, jumping across a pit, or swinging around a pole.
Freerunning is also used for sprinting (p. 191) and full
defense against attacks (p. 198).
Specializations: Balance, Gymnastics, Jumping, Running

GUNNERY
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Gunnery skill covers the use and main-
tenance of large, vehicular, or non-portable weapons
systems. Firing these weapons is more like playing a
video game than firing a gun.
  When you use it: Use Gunnery when attacking with
a vehicle-mounted weapon or weapon emplacement
in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Artillery, Missiles
HARDWARE: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: This skill encompasses the ability to
build, repair, physically hack, and upgrade equipment
of a specific type.
  When you use it: Hardware is primarily used to repair
devices, vehicles, habitat systems, or synthetic morphs.
See Building, Repairing, and Modifying below.
Sample Fields: Aerospace (all air and space vehicles),
  Armorer (armor and weapons), Electronics (all
  computerized devices), Groundcraft, Implants, In-
  dustrial (habitat, factory, and life support systems),
  Nautical (watercraft and submarines), Robotics
  (synthetic morphs)
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

BUILDING
Creating an item from scratch is handled as a Task
Action with a timeframe determined by the gamemas-
ter. The timeframe should be set according to the com-
plexity of the object and could range from an hour
(constructing a set of shelves) to days (assembling a
robot from spare parts) to even months (building a
house). Numerous factors may apply modifiers to
the test, such as the use of entoptic blueprints/help
manuals (+20) or poor working conditions (–10 to
–30). Tools are also a factor, perhaps making the job
 easier (superior tools +10 to +30), more difficult (poor
or inadequate tools, –10 to –30), or even impossible
(lack of required tools).

REPAIRING
Damaged items may be repaired in a similar manner. See
the rules for Synthmorph and Object Repair, p. 209.

MODIFYING
Altering an object's design and function follows the
same basic rules as build and repair, above. The time-
frame is determined by the gamemaster as appropriate
to the modification.
