IMPERSONATION
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Impersonation is the skill of trying to
pass yourself off as someone else in social situations,
including virtual ones. This includes copying manner-
isms and speech patterns and using accumulated in-
formation to convince others that you are that person.
In a universe where appearance is highly variable, the
question of identity is largely one of both trust and
picking up on behavioral quirks and verbal cues to
recognize a given individual.
  When you use it: Sometimes it's fun to pretend
you're someone else, and sometimes it's profitable
or lifesaving. Use this skill whenever you attempt
to convince someone that you are actually someone
else through some sort of social or online interaction.
Forks use this skill when passing themselves off as
their alpha ego. Impersonate is handled as an Op-
posed Test against the Kinesics skill.
Specializations: Avatar, Face-to-Face, Verbal

INFILTRATION
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: COO
   What it is: Infiltration is the art of escaping
detection.
   When you use it: Use Infiltration whenever you
need to physically hide or move with stealth to avoid
someone sensing you, whether you are hiding behind
a tree, sneaking past a guard, or blending into a
crowd. Infiltration can also be used to follow people
(shadowing) without them detecting you. Infiltration
is an Opposed Test against the Perception of whom-
ever you are hiding from. The gamemaster may wish
to roll such tests in secret so the player does not know
whether they have succeeded or failed.
Specializations: Blending In, Hiding, Shadowing,
   Sneaking

INFOSEC
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)
   What it is: Infosec is short for “information secu-
rity.” It encompasses training in electronic intrusion
and counterintrusion techniques, as well as encryption
and decryption.
   When you use it: Infosec is used both for hacking
into electronic devices and mesh networks and for
protecting them. See the Mesh chapter, p. 234, for
more details.
Specializations: Brute-Force Hacking, Decryption,
   Probing, Security, Sniffing, Spoofing

INTEREST: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: Interest includes just about any topic
that captures your attention that isn't covered by
another skill. This includes hobbies, obsessions,
causes, pastimes, and other recreational pursuits.
  When you use it: Use the Interest skill whenever
you need to recall or use knowledge related to the
particular interest in question.
  Field Examples: Ancient Sports, Celebrity Gossip,
Conspiracies, Factor Trivia, Gambling, Hypercorp
Politics, Lunar Habitats, Martian Beers, Old Earth
Nation-States, Reclaimer Blogs, Science Fiction, Scum
Drug Dealers, Spaceship Models, Triad Economics,
Underground XP
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

INTERFACING
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: Interfacing is about using computerized
electronic devices and software.
  When you use it: Use Interfacing to understand an
electronic device you are not familiar with, use a pro-
gram according to its normal operating parameters,
manipulate electronic files of various types (including
images, video, XP, and audio files), scan for wireless
devices, and otherwise interact with and command
your ecto, muse, and other computerized devices.
Some Interfacing actions may be Task Actions, with
a timeframe determined by the gamemaster. For more
detail, see the Mesh chapter, p. 234.
Specializations: Forgery, Scanning, Stealthing, by
   program

INTIMIDATION
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Intimidation is convincing someone to
do what you want based on direct threats (implied or
actual) or sheer force of personality.
  When you use it: Use Intimidation to scare someone
into submission, browbeat them into getting your way,
command them to follow your orders, or berate them
into giving up information. Influence is handled as an
Opposed Test, pitted against the target's WIL + WIL
+ SAV.
Specializations: Interrogation, Physical, Verbal

INVESTIGATION
Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Investigation is the art of analyzing
evidence, piecing together clues, solving mysteries,
and making logical deductions from groups of facts.
Investigation differs from Perception in that it is the
conscious search for clues or pieces of a puzzle.
  When you use it: Use Investigation to draw conclu-
sions from assorted details. For example, Investiga-
tion could be used to determine the likely sequence
of events at a crime scene, determine a possible social
connection between two people, or deduce how an
enemy made their escape. Investigation is a great way
