to provide clues to players, especially when the subject
matter is something their character might know well
but the player does not.
Specializations: Evidence Analysis, Logical Deductions,
  Physical Investigation, Physical Tracking

KINESICS
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
   What it is: Kinesics is the art of empathy and non-
vocal communication.
   When you use it: Use Kinesics to read body language,
tells, social cues, and other subconscious indicators. It
can also be used to emote more effectively. Kinesics
is used defensively whenever someone is trying to de-
ceive you; make an Opposed Test against that person's
Deception or Impersonation skill.
   Though synthetic morphs are also designed to
emote, reading them is not as easy. Apply a –30 modi-
fier when judging a synthetic morph inhabited by a
character or AGI. Likewise, standard AIs are also dif-
ficult to read; apply a –60 modifier when judging a
synthetic morph or pod operated by an AI.
Specializations: Judge Intent, Nonvocal Communication

JUDGING EMOTIONS AND INTENTIONS
Transhumans are empathic beings, and so you can
attempt to gauge the demeanor and/or intent of
someone you are dealing with by rolling a Kinesics
Test. This attempt to read someone is far from exact,
however, and it is easy to misjudge. The gamemaster
should make this test in secret and only allow a hint
if successful—it is not possible to read someone with
absolute certainty. If the person being judged is inten-
tionally trying to deceive the character, this should be
an Opposed Test against their Deception skill.

NONVOCAL COMMUNICATION
Experts in Kinesics can effectively communicate
with each other simply by posture, stances, gestures,
demeanors, and looks. Such communication is nec-
essarily limited in the amount of information it can
convey, but feelings, attitudes, affirmation/negation,
and simple concepts may be passed. To effectively
communicate complex concepts, the gamemaster may
require successful Kinesics Tests from both parties, ap-
plying modifiers as appropriate.

KINETIC WEAPONS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
   What it is: Kinetic Weapons covers the use and
maintenance of standard kinetic projectile weapons
like firearms and railguns (p. 335).
   When you use it: Use this skill whenever attacking
with a kinetic weapon in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Assault Rifles, Machine Guns, Pistols,
   Sniper Rifles, Submachine Guns
  LANGUAGES IN
  ECLIPSE PHASE
  With the Fall of Earth, the languages that
  remain most prominent in the solar system are
  those that were extensively carried into space
  by countries and hypercorps with aggressive
  space programs or by the large populations
  of poor laborers and infomorph refugees that
  followed. No single language dominated the
  realm of space expansion, and multilingual-
  ism was common. Many habitats and (sub)
  cultural groupings cling to specific languages
  as a method of retaining cultural identity. De-
  spite the availability of instant translation via
  the mesh, many people remain versed in two or
  more languages.
    The ten most common languages in the solar
  system by speaking populations are: Arabic,
  Cantonese, English, French, Hindi, Japanese,
  Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian, and Spanish.
  Other languages that remain strong include
  Bengali, Dutch, Farsi, German, Italian, Javanese,
  Korean, Polish, Punjabi, Swedish, Tamil, Turkish,
  Urdu, Vietnamese, and Wu. Some languages
  were effectively lost during the Fall, especially
  those in some undeveloped regions, as their
  speaking populations did not migrate into space
  pre-Fall and were not privileged enough to sur-
  vive in large numbers as infomorph refugees. ■



LANGUAGE: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Language covers the speaking and
reading of languages other than the player's native
tongue. A speaker is considered fluent at a skill level
of 50; anything above this indicates further refine-
ment in technical vocabulary, accents, and knowl-
edge of dialects.
  When you use it: Use the Language skill whenever
you want to speak, understand, or read something in
a language at which you are skilled. Most speaking
and reading comprehension tests can be considered
Simple Success Tests if your skill is over 50, unless the
gamemaster rules the subject is sufficiently complex
that a non-native speaker would have trouble under-
standing it.
Sample Fields: Arabic, Cantonese, English, French,
  Hindi, Japanese, Mandarin, Portuguese, Russian,
   Spanish
Specializations: As appropriate to the field, represent-
   ing dialects, technical jargon, and subcultural slang
