MEDICINE: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: Medicine is the applied care and mainte-
nance of biological beings and life.
  When you use it: Use Medicine whenever you need
to apply medical care beyond the immediate help
provided by first responders. This includes conduct-
ing physical exams, diagnosing ailments, treating
problems and illnesses, surgery, using biotech and
nanotech medical tools, and long-term care. See Heal-
ing and Repair, p. 208.
Sample Fields: Biosculpting, Exotic Biomorphs,
  Gene Therapy, General Practice, Implant Surgery,
  Nanomedicine, Mercurials (by type), Paramedic,
  Pods, Psychiatry, Remote Surgery, Trauma Surgery,
  Veterinary
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

NAVIGATION
Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Navigation is the art of finding your way,
whether using AR maps, a compass, the stars, or an
astrogation AI.
  When you use it: Use Navigation whenever you
need to plot out a course, determine a direction, or
otherwise keep from getting lost.
Specializations: Astrogation, Map Making, Map
  Reading

NETWORKING: [FIELD]
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Networking is your skill at working your
contacts, trading favors, and keeping your finger on
the pulse of a particular faction or cultural grouping.
  When you use it: Use Networking to gather infor-
mation or call on services using your Reputation (see
Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285).
Sample Fields: Autonomists (@-rep), Criminals (g-rep),
  Ecologists (e-rep), Firewall (i-rep), Hypercorps (c-
  rep), Media (f-rep), Scientists (r-rep). At the game-
  master's discretion, this list can be expanded to
  other (sub)cultural groupings.
Specializations: As appropriate to each field

PALMING
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: COO
  What it is: Palming is the skill of handling items quick-
ly and nimbly without others noticing. Palming is not
only about dexterous manipulation of objects but also
relies heavily on obfuscation, timing, and misdirection.
  When you use it: Use Palming any time you are
trying to conceal an item on your person, shoplift,
pick a pocket, surreptitiously discard something, or
perform a magic trick. Palming is an Opposed Test
against the Perception of any onlookers. The game-
master may wish to make this roll secretly.
Specializations: Pickpocketing, Shoplifting, Tricks

PERCEPTION
Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Perception is the use of your physical
senses (including cybernetic) and awareness of the
physical world around you. Perception differs from
Investigation in that it is noticing things by chance,
rather than actively searching for something.
  When you use it: Use Perception whenever you
wanted to take a detailed account of your surround-
ings (see Detailed Perception, p. 190). Perception
can also be considered an Automatic Action (see
Basic Perception, p. 190) and so the gamemaster may
call for a Perception Test to determine if you notice
something; it is recommended that such tests be rolled
secretly by the gamemaster. Perception is also used as
an Opposed Test whenever someone around you is
trying to be sneaky with Infiltration or Palming.
Specializations: Aural, Olfactory, Tactile, Taste, Visual
