PERSUASION
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Persuasion is the art of convincing
someone to do what you want through the use of
words and gestures. This does not include persuasion
through threats or force (that is covered by Intimida-
tion) or by lying (covered by Deception).
  When you use it: Use Persuasion any time you are
trying to bargain with, convince, or manipulate some-
one. This can include motivating your subordinates or
peers to take action, seducing a companion, winning
a political debate, or negotiating a contract, among
other things. Persuasion is handled as an Opposed
Test against the target's WIL + WIL + SAV when one
person is simply trying to win over another. If both
parties are trying to convince each other, make it an
Opposed Test between Persuasion skills.
Specializations: Diplomacy, Morale Boosting, Negoti-
   ating, Seduction

PILOT: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Active, Vehicle
Linked Aptitude: REF
  What it is: Pilot is your skill at driving/flying a ve-
hicle of a particular type.
  When you use it: You use Pilot skill whenever you
need to maneuver, control, or avoid crashing a vehicle,
whether you are in the pilot's seat, remote controlling
a robot, or directly jamming a vehicle with VR. Each
vehicle has a Handling modifier that applies to this
test, along with other situational modifiers (see Bots,
Synthmorphs, and Vehicles, p. 195).
Sample Fields: Aircraft, Anthroform (walkers), Exotic
  Vehicle, Groundcraft (wheeled or tracked), Space-
   craft, Watercraft
Specializations: As appropriate to the field

PROFESSION: [FIELD]
Type: Field, Knowledge
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: Profession skills indicate training in a
profession practiced in Eclipse Phase. This can indi-
cate either formal training or informal, on-the-job type
training, and includes both legal and extralegal trades.
  When you use it: Use Profession to perform work-
related tasks for a specific trade (i.e. mining, balancing
accounts, designing a security system, etc.) or to refer-
ence specialized knowledge that someone trained in
that profession might have.
Sample Fields: Accounting, Appraisal, Asteroid Pros-
   pecting, Banking, Cool Hunting, Con Schemes,
   Distribution, Forensics, Lab Technician, Mining,
   Police Procedures, Psychotherapy, Security Ops,
   Smuggling Tricks, Social Engineering, Squad Tactics,
  Viral Marketing, XP Production
Specializations: As appropriate to the field
PROGRAMMING
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG (no defaulting)
  What it is: Programming is your talent at writing
and modifying software code.
  When you use it: Use Programming to write new
programs, modify or patch existing software, break
copy protection, find or introduce exploitable flaws,
write virii or worms, design virtual settings, and so
on. See the Mesh chapter, p. 234. Programming is also
applied when using nanofabrication devices.
Specializations: AI Code, Malware, Nanofabrication,
  Piracy, Simulspace Code

NANOFABRICATION
Nanofabrication is use of Programming skill to create
objects using a cornucopia machine, fabber, or maker
(p. 327). If you have appropriate blueprints and raw
materials, most uses of a nanofabricator can be treated
as a Simple Success Test (p. 118). If you wish to create
an item for which you do not have blueprints or the
proper raw materials, however, or you wish to alter an
item's design, then a Nanofabrication Test is called for.
See Nanofabrication, p. 284.
Specializations: Art, Clothing, Electronics, Food, Forg-
   ery, Weapons

PROTOCOL
Type: Active, Social
Linked Aptitude: SAV
  What it is: Protocol is the art of making a good
impression in social settings. This includes keeping
up with the latest memes, trends, gossip, interests and
habits of various (sub)cultural group.
  When you use it: Use Protocol whenever you need
to choose your words carefully, determine who is the
appropriate person to speak to, impress someone with
your grasp of customs, or otherwise fit into a specific
social/cultural grouping. Part etiquette, part streetwise,
Protocol allows you to navigate treacherous social
waters and put people at ease. If the character is deal-
ing with a suspicious or hostile audience, make this an
Opposed Test against the target's WIL + WIL + SAV.
Specializations: Anarchist, Brinker, Criminal, Factor,
  Hypercorp, Infomorph, Mercurial, Reclaimer, Pres-
  ervationist, Scum, Ultimate

NEGATING SOCIAL GAFFES
Sometimes a player will make a mistake that their
character never would, whether that's failing to stand
in the presence of hypercorp royalty, confusing a gang
leader for a peon, or accidentally insulting someone's
heritage. In cases like this, the player may make a Pro-
tocol Test for the appropriate field in order to negate
the gaffe. If successful, the character never actually
screwed up, or at least managed to cover their tracks
without ruffling any feathers.
