PSI ASSAULT
Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: WIL
  What it is: Psi Assault is the skill of damaging an-
other ego's mind. It can only be purchased by charac-
ters with the Psi trait (p. 147).
  What it does: Use Psi Assault when attacking an-
other ego's mind in psi combat.
Specializations: By sleight

PSYCHOSURGERY
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: INT
   What it is: Psychosurgery is the use of machine-
aided psychological techniques to repair, damage, or
manipulate the psyche.
   When you use it: Use Psychosurgery to attempt the
tricky process of editing someone's mind (see Psycho-
surgery, p. 229). Psychosurgery can be used benefi-
cially to help patients who remember their deaths, feel
disconnected after remorphing, or have experienced
other sorts of mental traumas. This skill may also be
used to interrogate, torture, or otherwise mess with
captive minds in a VR environment.
Specializations: Memory Manipulation, Personality
   Editing, Psychotherapy

RESEARCH
Type: Active, Technical
Linked Aptitude: COG
  What it is: Research is the skill for looking up infor-
mation on the Mesh: searching, sifting, mining, and
interpreting data. This includes knowing where to look,
what links to follow, and how to optimize your queries.
  When you use it: Use the Research skill whenever
you need to look up the answer to a question, find
databases, search archives, or track down anything
online. Research is typically a Task Action with the
timeframe and difficulty modifier determined by the
gamemaster. See the Online Research, p. 249.
Specializations: Tracking, by information type

SCROUNGING
Type: Active, Mental
Linked Aptitude: INT
   What it is: Scrounging is your ability to find things,
particularly things of use or value that are concealed,
buried, or hard to find. This includes knowing where
to look and what to look for. Scrounging differs from
both Perception and Investigation in that it is about
finding items hidden among others, and in most cases
about finding something in particular (food, valu-
ables, etc.).
   When you use it: Use Scrounging to dumpster-dive a
meal, search ruins for relics, find bargains at a bazaar,
forage berries in the forest, locate a spacesuit in an
abandoned ship, etc. Scrounging is typically handled
as a Task Action with a timeframe and difficulty
modifier determined by the gamemaster.
Specializations: Bazaars, Forests, Habitats, Ruins
SEEKER WEAPONS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
  What it is: Seeker Weapons covers the use and
maintenance of seeker launchers (p. 339) and seeker
missiles (p. 340).
  When you use it: Use this skill when attacking with
a seeker in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Armband, Pistol, Rifle, Underbarrel

SENSE
Type: Active, Mental, Psi
Linked Aptitude: INT
  What it is: Sense is the use of psi to scan egos. Only
characters with the Psi trait (p. 147) may purchase
this skill.
  What it does: See Psi, p. 220.
Specializations: By sleight

SPRAY WEAPONS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
  What it is: The Spray Weapons skill covers the use
and maintenance of cone-effect ranged weapons (see
Spray Weapons, p. 340).
  When you use it: A player uses their Sonic Weapons
skill whenever they are attacking with a spray weapon
in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Buzzer, Freezer, Shard, Shredder, Torch

SWIMMING
Type: Active, Physical
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: Swimming is the art of moving and
not drowning within fl uids. It includes fl oating,
surface swimming, snorkeling, diving, and related
equipment use.
  When you use it: Use Swimming whenever you
need to move and survive in water or another liquid
environment. Swimming in a non-threatening en-
vironment can be handled as a Simple Success Test.
Swimming over a long distance could be handled as
a Task Action. Diving off a cliff into a lake, prevent-
ing yourself from being swept away in a raging river
current, or making sure you've set a proper gas mix
for a deep-sea dive, among other things, requires a
Success Test.
Specializations: Diving, Freestyle, Underwater Diving

THROWING WEAPONS
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: COO
  What it is: Throwing Weapons skill covers the use
and maintenance of standard throwing weapons, like
grenades (p. 340).
  When you use it: Use Throwing Weapons skill
whenever you are attacking with a throwing weapon
in ranged combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Grenades, Knives, Rocks
