T




w
USING KNOWLEDGE SKILLS
t first glance, it may seem that Knowledge skills have
 wer in-game applications than Active skills. To some
egree this is the case. The importance of Knowledge
  ills, however, should not be underestimated. While
hey play a role in analyzing clues and solving myster-
 s, the real value of Knowledge skills is in helping the
haracters—and the players—understand the world of
clipse Phase. In particular these skills can be used to
 ake plans, assess a situation, identify strengths and
 eaknesses, evaluate worth, make comparisons, forecast
robable outcomes, or understand the applicable science,
ocio-economic factors, or cultural or historical context.
  For example, a group of characters looking to break
 to a facility could use Profession: Security Procedures
o evaluate the defenses, Academic: Architecture to
 entify covert points of entry, Interests: Sports to plan
  eir infiltration at a time when the guards are likely to
e distracted, Interests: Triads to identify a local crime
roup that can sell them breaking and entering gear,
nd Art: Sculpture when picking a valuable art piece
 ith which to bribe an insider. When used appropriately,
hese skills can be just as beneficial as the Active skills
sed to break inside, if not more so because the plan
 more likely to succeed as a result of this preparation.
  It is largely up to the gamemaster to enforce how
seful Knowledge skills are in their game. The easiest
 ay to reinforce their relevance is to penalize charac-
 rs who don't take advantage of them. For example,
haracters who didn't use their Profession: Security
  ocedures in the example above might end up being
urprised when they run across a security system they
 e not prepared to deal with, forcing them to impro-
 se or even abandon their plans.                         ■



ARMED COMBAT
e: Active, Combat
ked Aptitude: SOM
 hat it is: Unarmed Combat is your ability to attack and
 nd without using weapons.
 hen you use it: Use Unarmed Combat whenever you
 t to attack someone with your fists, feet, elbows, knees,
 ther body parts in melee combat (p. 191).
 ializations: Implant Weaponry, Kick, Punch, Subdual



 ECIAL SKILLS
 hile the preceding list represents the skills most commonly
  in Eclipse Phase, there may be certain skills called for in a
paign that are not found in this book. In this case, the game-
ter may work with the players to create a new skill to fill
void. This option should be used sparingly to prevent skill
t, and all skills are subject to approval by the gamemaster
you choose to create a new skill, keep in mind that it needs
e linked to an existing aptitude and should be a skill that
 ailable to all characters, not just specific to one character.
