  USING KNOWLEDGE SKILLS
  At first glance, it may seem that Knowledge skills have
  fewer in-game applications than Active skills. To some
  degree this is the case. The importance of Knowledge
  skills, however, should not be underestimated. While
  they play a role in analyzing clues and solving myster-
  ies, the real value of Knowledge skills is in helping the
  characters—and the players—understand the world of
  Eclipse Phase. In particular these skills can be used to
  make plans, assess a situation, identify strengths and
  weaknesses, evaluate worth, make comparisons, forecast
  probable outcomes, or understand the applicable science,
  socio-economic factors, or cultural or historical context.
     For example, a group of characters looking to break
  into a facility could use Profession: Security Procedures
  to evaluate the defenses, Academic: Architecture to
  identify covert points of entry, Interests: Sports to plan
  their infiltration at a time when the guards are likely to
  be distracted, Interests: Triads to identify a local crime
  group that can sell them breaking and entering gear,
  and Art: Sculpture when picking a valuable art piece
  with which to bribe an insider. When used appropriately,
  these skills can be just as beneficial as the Active skills
  used to break inside, if not more so because the plan
  is more likely to succeed as a result of this preparation.
     It is largely up to the gamemaster to enforce how
  useful Knowledge skills are in their game. The easiest
  way to reinforce their relevance is to penalize charac-
  ters who don't take advantage of them. For example,
  characters who didn't use their Profession: Security
  Procedures in the example above might end up being
  surprised when they run across a security system they
  are not prepared to deal with, forcing them to impro-
  vise or even abandon their plans.                         ■



UNARMED COMBAT
Type: Active, Combat
Linked Aptitude: SOM
  What it is: Unarmed Combat is your ability to attack and
defend without using weapons.
  When you use it: Use Unarmed Combat whenever you
want to attack someone with your fists, feet, elbows, knees,
or other body parts in melee combat (p. 191).
Specializations: Implant Weaponry, Kick, Punch, Subdual



SPECIAL SKILLS
   While the preceding list represents the skills most commonly
used in Eclipse Phase, there may be certain skills called for in a
campaign that are not found in this book. In this case, the game-
master may work with the players to create a new skill to fill
this void. This option should be used sparingly to prevent skill
bloat, and all skills are subject to approval by the gamemaster
   If you choose to create a new skill, keep in mind that it needs
to be linked to an existing aptitude and should be a skill that
is available to all characters, not just specific to one character.
