AND COMBAT■ACTION AND COMBAT■



N AND COMBAT
Roleplaying games are about creating drama and
adventure, and that usually means action and
combat. Action and combat scenes are the moments
when the adrenaline really gets pumping and the
characters' lives and missions are on the line.
  Combat and action scenarios can be confusing
to run, especially if the gamemaster also needs to
keep track of the actions of numerous NPCs. For
these reasons, it's important for the gamemaster to
detail the action in a way that everyone can visual-
ize, whether that means using a map and miniatures,
software, a dry-erase board, or quick sketches on
a piece of paper. Though many of the rules for
handling action and combat are abstract—allowing
room for interpretation and fudging results to fit
the story—many tactical factors are also incorpo-
rated, so even small details can make a large differ-
ence. It also helps to have the capabilities of NPCs
predetermined and to run them as a group when
possible, to reduce the gamemaster's burden in the
middle of a hectic situation.



 ACTION TURNS
Action scenes in Eclipse Phase are handled in bite-
size chunks called Action Turns, each approximately
3 seconds in length. We say “approximately” be-
cause the methodical, step-by-step system used to
resolve actions does not necessarily always translate
realistically to real life, where people often pause,
take breaks to assess the situation, take a breather,
and so on. A combat that begins and ends within 5
Action Turns (15 seconds) in Eclipse Phase could
last half a minute to several minutes in real life. On
the other hand, the characters may be in a situation
where their breathing environment decompresses to
vacuum in 15 seconds, so every second may in fact
count. As a rule, gamemasters should stick with 3
seconds per turn, but they shouldn't be afraid to
fudge the timing either when a situation calls for it.
  Action Turns are meant to be utilized for combat
and other situations where timing and the order in
which people act is important. If it is not necessary
to keep track of who's doing what so minutely, you
can drop out of Action Turns and return to “regu-
lar” free form game time.
   Each Action Turn is in turn broken down into
distinct stages, described below.

 STEP 1: ROLL INITIATIVE
At the beginning of every Action Turn, each PLAYER
involved in the scene rolls Initiative to determine the
order in which each character acts. For more details,
see Initiative.
CTION AND COMBAT■ACTION AND CO

                                                           7


 STEP 2: BEGIN FIRST ACTION PHASE
 Once Initiative is rolled, the fi rst Action Phase
 begins. Everyone gets to act in the first Action Phase
 (since everyone has a minimum Speed of 1), unless
 they happen to be unconscious/dead/disabled, start-
 ing with the character with the highest successful
 Initiative roll.

 STEP 3: DECLARE AND RESOLVE ACTIONS
 The character going first now declares and resolves
 the actions they will take during this first Action
 Phase. Since some actions the character makes may
 depend on the outcome of others, there is no need
 to declare them all first—they may be announced
 and handled one at a time.
   As described under Actions (p. 189), each charac-
 ter may perform a varying number of Quick Actions
 and/or a single Complex Action during their turn.
 Alternately, a character may begin or continue with
 a Task Action, or delay their action pending other
 developments (see Delayed Actions, p. 189).
   A character who has delayed their action may
 interrupt another character at any point during this
 stage. That interrupting character must complete
 this stage in full, then the action returns to the in-
 terrupted character to finish the rest of their stage.

 STEP 4: ROTATE AND REPEAT
 Once the character has resolved their actions for
 that phase, the next character in the Initiative order
 gets to go, running through Step 3 for themselves.
    If every character has completed their actions
 for that phase, return to Step 2 and go the second
 Action Phase. Every character with a Speed of 2 or
 more gets to go through Step 3 again, in the same
 Initiative order (modified by wound modifiers).
 Once the second Action Phase is completed, return
 to Step 2 for the 3rd Action Phase, where every
 character with a Speed of 3 or more gets to go for
 a third time. Finally, after everyone eligible to go in
 the 3rd Action Phase has gone, return to Step 2 for
 a fourth and last Action Phase, where every charac-
 ter with a Speed of 4 can act for one final time.
   At the end of the fourth Action Phase, return to Step
 1 and roll Initiative again for the next Action Turn.



 INITIATIVE
 Timing in an Action Turn can be critical—it may mean
 life or death for a character who needs to get behind
 cover before an opponent draws and fires their gun.
 The process of rolling Initiative determines if a char-
 acter acts before or after another character.
