INITIATIVE ORDER
A character's Initiative stat is equal to their Intuition +
Reflexes aptitudes multiplied by 2. This score may be
further modified by morph type, implants, drugs, psi,
or wounds.
  In the first step of each Action Turn, every charac-
ter makes an Initiative Test, rolling d100 and adding
their Initiative stat. Whoever rolls highest goes first,
followed by the other characters in descending order,
highest to lowest. In the event of a tie, characters go
simultaneously.


           Adam, Bob, and Cami are rolling Initiative. Adam's
           Initiative stat is 80, Bob's is 110, and Cami's is 60.
           Adam rolls a 38, Bob rolls a 24, and Cami rolls a
 EXAMPLE




           76. Adam's total Initiative score is 118 (80 + 38),
           Bob's is 134 (110 + 24), and Cami's is 136 (60 +
           76). Cami rolled highest, so she goes first, followed
           by Bob and then Adam. If Cami & Bob had tied,
           they would both go at the same time.


INITIATIVE AND DAMAGE
Characters who are suffering from wounds have their
Initiative score temporarily reduced (see Wounds, p.
207). This modifier is applied immediately when the
wound is taken, which means that it may modify an
Initiative score in the middle of an Action Turn. If a
character is wounded before they go in that Action
Phase, their Initiative is reduced accordingly, which
may mean they now go after someone they were pre-
viously ahead of in the Initiative order.


           Before Bob's Action Phase comes up, Bob takes
 EXAMPLE




           two wounds, knocking his Initiative down from
           134 to 114. This means that Adam, with an Initia-
           tive of 118, now goes before him.


INITIATIVE, MOXIE, AND CRITICALS
A character may spend a point of Moxie to go first in
an Action Phase, regardless of their Initiative roll (see
Moxie, p. 122). If more than one character chooses
this option, then order is determined as normal first
among those who spent Moxie, followed by those
who didn't.
   Similarly, any character that rolls a critical on Ini-
tiative automatically goes first, even before someone
who spent Moxie. If more that two characters rolled
criticals, determine order between them as normal.

SPEED
Speed determines how many times a character can
act during an Action turn. Every character starts with
a default Speed stat of 1, meaning they can act in the
first Action Phase of the turn only. Certain morphs,
implants, drugs, psi, and other factors may cumu-
latively increase their Speed to 2, 3, or even 4 (the
maximum), allowing them to act in further Action
  SIMPLIFYING
  INITIATIVE
  For speedier resolution, simply have characters
  roll Initiative once for an entire scene. That
  Initiative result stays with them on each Action
  Turn until the combat or scenario is over. Like-
  wise, ignore Initiative modifiers from wounds. ■




Phases as well. For example, a character with Speed
2 can act in the first and second Action Phases, and
a character with Speed 3 can act in the first through
third Action Phases. A character with Speed 4 is
able to act in every Action Phase. This represents
the character's enhanced reflexes and neurology, al-
lowing them to think and act much faster than non-
enhanced characters.
  If a character's Speed does not allow them to act
during an Action Phase, they can initiate no actions
during the pass—they must simply bide their time.
The character may still defend themself, however, and
any automatic actions remain “on.” Note that any
movement the character initiated is considered to still
be underway even during the Action Phases they do
not participate in (see Movement, p. 190).

DELAYED ACTIONS
When it's your turn to go during an Action Phase,
you may decide that you're not ready to act yet. You
may be awaiting the outcome of another character's
actions, hoping to interrupt someone else's action, or
may simply be undecided about what to do yet. In this
case, you may opt to delay your action.
  When you delay your action, you're putting your-
self on standby. At some later point in that Action
Phase, you can announce that you are now taking
your action—even if you interrupt another character's
action. In this case, all other activity is put on hold
until your action is resolved. Once your action has
taken place, the Initiative order continues on where
you interrupted.
  You may delay your action into the next Action
Phase, or even the next Action Turn, but if you do not
take it by the time your next action comes around in
the Initiative order, then you lose it. Additionally, if
you do delay your action into another phase or turn,
then once you take it you lose any action you might
have in that Action Phase.



ACTIONS
When it's your turn to act during an Action Phase,
you have many options for what you can do—far too
many to list here. There is a limit to what you can
accomplish in 3 seconds, however, so some limita-
tions must be adhered to. The first step is to figure
