out what type of action you want to take. In Eclipse
Phase, actions are categorized as Automatic, Quick,
Complex, or Task, based on how much time and
effort they entail.

AUTOMATIC ACTIONS
Automatic Actions require no effort. These are abili-
ties or activities that are “always on” (assuming you
are conscious) or are otherwise reflexive (they happen
automatically in response to certain conditions, with
no effort from you). Breathing, for example, is an au-
tomatic action—your body does it without conscious
effort or thinking on your part.
   In most cases, Automatic Actions are not something
that you initiate—they are always active, or at least
on standby. Certain circumstances, however, will bring
an Automatic Action to bear. Such Automatic Actions
are invoked and handled immediately whenever they
apply, without requiring effort from your character.

RESISTANCE
Resisting damage—whether from combat, a poison, or
a psi attack—is one example of an Automatic Action
that occurs in response to something else.

BASIC PERCEPTION
Your senses are continuously active, accumulating data
on the world around you. Basic perception is consid-
ered an Automatic Action, and so the gamemaster can
call on you to make a Perception Test whenever you
receive sensory input that your brain might want to
take notice of (see Perception, p. 182). Likewise, you
may ask the gamemaster at any time—even during
other character's actions—to make a basic Perception
Test, just to find out what your character is noticing
around them.
  Because basic perception is an automatic, subcon-
scious activity, however, you will suffer a –20 modifier
for distraction—your attention is focused elsewhere.
In order to avoid the distraction modifier, you must
actively engage in detailed perception or use an oracle
implant (p. 308).

QUICK ACTIONS
Quick Actions are fast and simple, and they may often
be multi-tasked. They require minimal thought and
effort. You may undertake multiple Quick Actions on
your turn during each Action Phase, limited only by
the gamemaster's judgment. If you are taking noth-
ing but Quick Actions during an Action Phase, you
should be allowed a minimum of 3 separate Quick
Actions. If you are also engaging in a Complex or Task
Action during that same Action Phase, you should be
allowed a minimum of 1 Quick Action. Ultimately, the
gamemaster decides what activity you can or can't fit
into a single Action Phase.
   Some examples of Quick Actions include: talking,
switching a safety, activating an implant, standing
up, dropping prone, gesturing, drawing/readying a
weapon, handling an object, or using a simple object.
AIMING
Aiming is a special case in that it is a Quick Action
but requires a degree of concentration that rules out
other minor actions. If you wish to aim before making
an attack in the same Action Phase, aiming is the only
Quick Action you may make during that Action Phase
(see Aimed Shots, p. 193).

DETAILED PERCEPTION
Detailed perception involves taking a moment to
actively use your senses in search of information and
assess what you are perceiving (see Perception, p.
182). It requires slightly more effort and brainpower
(or computer power) than basic perception, which is
automatic. As a Quick Action, you may only engage
in detailed perception on your turn during an Action
Phase, but you do not suffer a modifier for distrac-
tion (unless you happen to be in a heavily distracting
environment, such as a gunfight or agitated crowd).

COMPLEX ACTIONS
Complex Actions require more concentration and
effort than Quick Actions—they effectively monopo-
lize your attention. You may only take one Complex
Action on each your Action Phase turns. Additionally,
you may not engage in a Complex Action and a Task
Action during the same Action Phase.
   Examples of Complex Actions include: attacking,
shooting, acrobatics, full defense, disarming a bomb,
using a complex device, or reloading a weapon.

TASK ACTIONS
A Task Action is any activity that requires longer than one
Action Turn to complete. Each Task Action lists a time-
frame for how long the task takes to accomplish. This
timeframe may range anywhere from 2 Action Turns to 2
years. While engaged in a Task Action, you may not also
undertake a Complex Action, though in some cases you
may take a break from the task and return to it later. For
more information, see Task Actions, p. 120.
   Examples of Task Actions include: repairing a
device, programming, conducting a scientific analysis,
searching a room, climbing a wall, or cooking a meal.



MOVEMENT
Movement in Eclipse Phase is handled just like any
other action, and may change from Action Phase to
Action Phase. Walking and running both count as Quick
Actions, as they do not require your full concentration.
The same also applies to slithering, crawling, floating,
hovering, or gliding. Running, however, may inflict a
–10 modifier on other actions that are affected by your
jostling movement. Even more, sprinting is an all-out run,
 and so requires a Complex Action (see Sprinting, p. 191).
   At the gamemasters discretion, other movement
 may also call for a Complex Action. Hurdling a fence,
pole vaulting, jumping from a height, swimming, or
freerunning through a habitat in zero-gravity all re-
quire a bit of finesse and attention to detail, so would
