count as a Complex Action, and would apply the
same modifier as running. Flying generally counts as a
Quick Action, though intricate maneuvers would call
for a Complex Action.

MOVEMENT RATES
Sometimes it's important to know not just how you're
moving, but how far. For most of transhumanity, this
movement rate is the same: 4 meters per Action Turn
walking, 20 meters per turn running. To determine
how far a character can move in a particular Action
Phase, divide this movement rate by the total number
of Action Phases in that turn. In a turn with 4 Action
Phases, that breaks down to 1 meter walking per
Action Phase, 5 meters running.
  Movement such as swimming or crawling bench-
marks at about 1 meter per Action Turn, or 0.25
meters per Action Phase. You can also sprint to in-
crease your movement rate (see Sprinting). Vehicles,
robots, creatures, and unusual morphs will have indi-
vidual movement rates listed in the format of walking
rate/running rate in meters per turn.
  These movement rates assume standard Earth
gravity of course. If you're moving in a low-gravity,
microgravity, or high-gravity environment, things
change. See Gravity, p. 198.

JUMPING
Characters making a running jump can cross SOM รท
5 (round up) meters; use SOM รท 20 (round up) meters
for standing jumps. Vertical jumping height is 1 meter.
Characters making a Freerunning Test can increase
jumping distance by 1 meter (running jump) or 0.25
meters (standing/vertical jumps) per 10 points of MoS.

SPRINTING
You may use Freerunning to increase the distance
you move during an Action Phase. You must spend
a Complex Action to sprint and make a Freerunning
Test. Every 10 points of MoS increases your running
distance in that Action Phase by 1 meter, to a maxi-
mum bonus of +5 meters.
COMBAT
Sometimes words fail, and that's when the knives and
shredders come out. All combat in Eclipse Phase is
conducted using the same basic mechanics, whether it's
conducted with claws, fists, weapons, guns, or psi: an
Opposed Test between the attacker and defender(s).

RESOLVING COMBAT
Use the following sequence of steps to determine the
outcome of an attack.

STEP 1: DECLARE ATTACK
The attacker initiates by taking a Complex Action to
attack on their turn during an Action Phase. The skill
employed depends on the method used to attack. If
the character lacks the appropriate Combat skill, they
must default to the appropriate linked aptitude.

STEP 2: DECLARE DEFENSE
Once the attack is declared, the defender chooses how
to respond. Defense is always considered an Automatic
Action unless the defender is surprised (see Surprise,
p. 204) or somehow incapacitated and incapable of
defending themself.
   Melee: A character defending against melee at-
tacks uses Fray skill, representing dodging (if the
character lacks this skill, they may default to Re-
flexes). Alternately, the character may use a melee
combat skill to defend, representing blocks and par-
ries rather than dodging.
   Ranged: Against ranged attacks, a defending char-
acter may only use half their Fray skill (round down).
   Full Defense: Characters who have taken a Com-
plex Action to go on full defense (p. 198) receive a
+30 modifier to their defensive roll.
   Psi: A character defending against a psi attack rolls
WIL x 2 (p. 222). A mental sort of full defense may
also be rallied against psi attacks.
