STEP 3: APPLY MODIFIERS
Any appropriate modifiers are now applied to the
attacker and defender's skills. See the Combat Modi-
fiers table (p. 193) for common situational modifiers.

STEP 4: MAKE THE OPPOSED TEST
The attacker and defender both roll d100 and com-
pare the results to their modified skill target numbers.

STEP 5: DETERMINE OUTCOME
If the attacker succeeds and the defender fails, the
attack hits. If the defender succeeds but the at-
tacker fails, the attack misses completely.
   If both attacker and defender succeed in their
tests, compare their dice rolls. If the attacker's
dice roll is higher, the attack hits despite a spirited
defense; otherwise, the attack fails to connect.
   Excellent Success: If the attacker rolled an Ex-
cellent Success (MoS of 30+), a solid hit is struck.
Increase the Damage Value (DV) inflicted by +5. If
the MoS is 60+, increase the DV by +10.
   Criticals: If the attacker rolls a critical success,
the attack is armor-defeating, meaning that the
defender's armor is bypassed completely—some
kink or flaw was exploited, allowing the attack to
get through completely.
   If the defender rolls a critical success, the attack-
er's weapon breaks, jams, gets stuck somewhere,
or otherwise malfunctions or gets dropped.

STEP 6: MODIFY ARMOR
If the target is hit, their armor will help to pro-
tect them against the attack (unless the attacker
rolled a critical, see above). Determine which type
of armor is appropriate to defending against that
particular attack (see Armor, p. 194). The attack's
Armor Penetration (AP) value reduces the armor's
rating, however, representing the weapon's ability
to pierce through protective measures.

STEP 7: DETERMINE DAMAGE
Every weapon and type of attack has a Damage
Value (DV, see p. 207). This amount is reduced
by the target's AP-modified armor rating. If the
damage is reduced to 0 or less, the armor is ef-
fective and the attack fails to injure the target.
Otherwise, any remaining damage is applied to the
defender. If the accumulated damage exceeds the
defender's Durability, they are incapacitated and
may die (see Durability and Health, p. 207).
  Note that some psi attacks inflict mental stress
rather than physical damage (see Mental Health, p.
209). In this case, the Stress Value (SV) is handled
the same as DV.

STEP 8: DETERMINE WOUNDS
The damage inflicted from a single attack is then
compared to the victim's Wound Threshold. If
the armor-modified DV equals or exceeds the
Wound Threshold, the character suffers a wound.
Multiple wounds may be applied with a single attack
if the modified DV is two or more factors beyond the
Wound Threshold. Wounds represent more serious
injuries and apply modifiers and other effects to the
character (see Wounds, p. 207).


  Stoya tried to get off the station quickly, but the Night
  Cartel's assassin caught up, surprising her in a micro-
  gravity part of the habitat. The assassin's INIT is 63,
  plus a dice roll of 23, for an Initiative of 86. Stoya's
  INIT is 55, plus a roll of 27, for an Initiative of 82.
     The assassin goes first, spending a Quick Action
  to draw a shredder. This flechette weapon is in
  burst-fire mode, so with a Complex Action the as-
  sassin can take two shots. His Spray Weapons skill
  is 65, he's smartlinked (+10), and they're at short
  range (+0), so he needs a 75 or less. Stoya is de-
  fending with her Fray skill (60) divided by 2, or 30.
     The assassin rolls an 08 with the first shot. Amaz-
  ingly, Stoya rolls a 28. They both succeeded, but
  Stoya rolled higher, so she dodges the first shot.
     The assassin rolls a 20 for his second shot, an-
  other hit, and this time Stoya rolls an 83, a failure.
  The assassin also scored an Excellent Success with
  a MoS of 55, increasing the DV by +5.
     The assassin's base damage is 2d10 + 5, but he's
  using burst fire against a single target for +1d10,
  and it's also a cone effect weapon at short range,
  for an additional +1d10, for a total DV of 4d10 +
  5. The assassin rolls 4d10 and gets 16, then adds
  the +5 for a total DV of 21.
     Stoya's wearing light body armor (AV 10/10),
                                                              EXAMPLE




  but the shredder's Armor penetration is –10, so her
  armor is entirely negated. She takes a devastating 21
  DV, exceeding her Wound Threshold of 10, not just
  once, but twice. This means Stoya suffers 2 wounds
  from the shot, suffering –20 to all actions. In addi-
  tion, she must make two SOM x 3 Tests, one to avoid
  knockdown and the other to avoid unconsciousness.
  Her SOM is 30, meaning she needs a 70 (30 x 3 =
  90, 90 – 20 wound modifiers = 70) on both rolls.
  She rolls a 40 and a 27, succeeding both.
     Now it's Stoya's action. She takes a Quick Action
  to pull her own weapon: a stunner. Her Beam
  Weapons skill is 47, modified by wounds (–20) and
  a smartlink (+10), for 37. The assassin's Fray is 48,
  divided by 2 for 24 against a ranged attack. Stoya
  rolls a 22—a critical hit—and the assassin rolls a
  68. The stunner only inflicts 1d10 ÷ 2 DV, but since
  the attack is a critical hit, this is armor defeating.
  Stoya rolls an 8, for 4 points of DV, below the as-
  sassin's Wound Threshold of 7.
     Stunners, however, are shock weapons, so the
  assassin must make a DUR + Energy Armor Test.
  His DUR is 35 and he's wearing an armor vest (AV
  6/6), so his target number is 41. He rolls a 71—a
  Margin of Failure of 30, meaning he is immediately
  incapacitated for 3 Action Turns.
     Having disabled her opponent, Stoya takes the
  time to make a hasty getaway.
