COMBAT SUMMARY
- Combat is handled as an Opposed Test.
- Attacker rolls attack skill +/– modifiers.
- Melee: Defender rolls Fray or melee skill
  +/– modifiers.
- Ranged: Defender rolls (Fray skill ÷ 2, round
  down) +/– modifiers.
- If attacker succeeds and rolls higher than the
  defender, the attack hits.
- Critical hits are armor-defeating (armor does
  not apply).
- Armor is reduced by the attack's Armor
  Penetration value (AP).
- The weapon's damage is reduced by the
  target's modified Armor rating (unless the
  attack is armor-defeating).
- If the damage exceeds the target's Wound
  Threshold, a wound is also scored. (If the
  damage exceeds the Wound Threshold
  by multiple factors, multiple wounds are
  inflicted.)



ACTION AND COMBAT COMPLICATIONS
Combat isn't quite as simple as deciding if you hit or
miss. Weapons, armor, ammunition, and numerous
other factors may impact an attack's outcome. Like-
wise, various factors can impact an action scene, such
as fire or microgravity effects.

AIMED SHOTS
As noted under Aiming, p. 190, a character can sacri-
fice their other Quick Actions to concentrate on tar-
geting a ranged attack and receive a +10 modifier on
the attack. You can also sacrifice an entire Complex
Action to fix your aim on a target. In this case, as long
as the target remains in your sights until your next
Action Phase, you receive a +30 modifier to hit.

AMMUNITION AND RELOADING
Every weapon has a listed ammunition capacity that
indicates how many shots the weapon can carry or
holds. When this ammo runs out, a new supply must
be loaded in. Players should keep track of the shots
they fire.
   Reloading almost always requires a Complex
Action, whether you are slapping in a new clip of bul-
lets or a fresh battery for a laser. At the gamemaster's
discretion, a reload that is immediately accessible
(such as a new clip reverse-taped to the loaded clip, so
that reloading just requires that you reverse the taped
clips and slot the new one in) will only take a Quick
Action. Archaic weapons such as magazine-fed rifles
may require longer to fully load.

AREA EFFECT WEAPONS
Some ranged attack weapons are designed to affect
more than one target at a time. These weapons fall
into three categories: blast, uniform blast, and cone.
                      COMBAT MODIFIERS
GENERAL                                                            MO
Character using off-hand
Character wounded/traumatized                                –10 per w
Character has superior position
Touch-only attack
Called shot
Character wielding two-handed weapon with one hand
Small target (child-sized)
Very small target (mouse or insect)
Large target (car sized)
Very large target (side of a barn)
Visibility impaired (minor: glare, light smoke, dim light)
Visibility impaired (major: heavy smoke, dark)
Blind attack


MELEE COMBAT                                                       MO
Character has reach advantage
Character charging or receiving a charge


RANGED COMBAT (ATTACKER)                                           MO
Attacker using smartlink or laser sight
Attacker behind cover
Attacker running
Attacker in melee combat
Attacker has reach advantage
Defender has minor cover
Defender has moderate cover
Defender has major cover
Defender prone and far (10+ meters)
Defender hidden
Aimed shot (quick)
Aimed shot (complex)
Sweeping fire with beam weapon                                  +10 on
Multiple targets in same Action Phase                        –20 per a
Indirect fire
Point-blank range (2 meters or less)
Short range
Medium range
Long range
Extreme range


 BLAST EFFECT
 Blast weapons include items like grenades, mines, and
 other explosives that expand outward from a central
 detonation point. Most blast attacks expand outward
 in a sphere, though certain shaped charges may direct
 an explosion in one direction only. The explosive force
 is stronger near the epicenter and weaker near the
 outer edges of the sphere. For every meter a target is
 from the center, reduce the damage of a blast weapon
 by –2.
