UNIFORM BLAST
Uniform blast attacks distribute their power evenly
throughout the area of effect. Examples include fuel-
air explosives and thermobaric weapons that disperse
an explosive mixture in a vapor cloud and ignite it all
at once. All targets within the noted blast radius suffer
the same damage. Damage against targets outside of
the main blast sphere is reduced by –2 per meter.

CONE
Weapons with a cone effect have an area effect that
begins with the tip of the weapon and expands out-
ward in a cone. At short range, this attack effects 1
target; at medium range it affects 2 targets within a
meter of each other; and at long or extreme range
it affects 3 targets within a meter of the next. Cone
 effect attacks do +1d10 damage at short range and
–1d10 damage at long and extreme range.

ARMOR
Just as weapons technologies have advanced, so too
has armor quality, allowing unprecedented levels of
protection. As noted in Step 7: Determine Damage
(see p. 192), the armor rating reduces the damage
points of the attack.
   For a full listing of armor types and values, see p.
311.

ENERGY VS. KINETIC
Each type of armor has an Armor value (AV) with two
ratings—Energy and Kinetic—representing the protec-
tion it applies against the respective type of attack.
These are listed in the format of “Energy armor/Kinetic
armor.” For example, an item with listed armor “5/10”
provides 5 points of armor against energy-based at-
tacks and 10 points of armor against kinetic attacks.
   Energy damage includes that caused by beam weap-
ons (laser, microwave, particle beam, plasma, etc.) as
well as fire and high-energy explosives. Armor that
protects against this damage is made of material that
reflects or diffuses such energy, dissipates and trans-
fers heat, or ablates.
   Kinetic damage is the transfer of damaging energy
when an object in motion (a fist, knife, club, or bullet,
for example) impacts with another object (the target).
Most melee and firearms attacks inflict kinetic damage,
as would a rolling boulder, swinging pendulum, or
explosion-driven fragments. Kinetic armors include
impact-resistant plates, shear-thickening liquid and
gels that harden upon impact, and ballistic and cut-
proof fiber weaves.

ARMOR PENETRATION
Some weapons have an Armor Penetration (AP) rating.
This represents the attack's ability to pierce through
protective layers. The AP rating reduces the value of
armor used to defend against the attack (see Step 6:
Modify Armor, p. 192).
LAYERED ARMOR
If two or more types of armor are worn, the armor
ratings are added together. However, wearing multiple
armor units is cumbersome and annoying. Apply a –20
modifier to a character's actions for each additional
armor layer worn
   Note that items specifically noted as armor accesso-
ries—helmets, shields, etc.—do not inflict the layered
armor penalty, they simply add their armor bonus.
Note also that the armor inherent to a synthetic
morph or bot's frame does not constitute a layer of
armor (i.e., you may wear armor over the synthetic
shell without penalty).

ASPHYXIATION
The average transhuman can hold their breath for
two minutes before blacking out. Strenuous activity
reduces the amount of time. For every 30 seconds
after the first minute a biomorph is prevented from
breathing, they must make a DUR Test. Apply a cu-
mulative –10 modifier each time this test is rolled. If
the character fails the test, they immediately fall un-
conscious and begin to suffer damage from asphyxi-
ation, at the rate of 10 points per minute, until they
die or are allowed to breathe again. This damage does
not cause wounds.
  Asphyxiating is a terrible process, often leading to
panic. Characters who are being asphyxiated must
make a WIL x 3 Test. If they fail, they suffer 1d10
÷ 2 (round up) mental stress and cannot perform
any effective action to rescue themselves that Action
turn. A character who succeeds may attempt to rescue
themselves, and in fact they must make a WIL x 3
Test to perform any other action not directly related
to rescuing themselves (attacks against another char-
acter, a creature, or an object holding the character
underwater are exempt from this rule).

BEAM WEAPONS
 Due to emitting a continuous beam of energy rather
 than single projectiles, beam weapons are easier to
“home in” on a target. This means one of the fol-
 lowing two rules may be used when making beam
 weapon attacks. These options are not available for
“pulse” beam weapons (like the laser pulser), as such
 weapons emit energy in pulses rather than a continu-
 ous beam.

SWEEPING FIRE
An attacker who is making two semi-auto (p. 198)
attacks with a beam weapon with the same Complex
Action and who misses with the first attack may treat
that attack as a free Aim action (p. 190), receiving a
+10 modifier for the second attack. In other words,
though the first attack misses, the character takes the
opportunity to sweep the beam closer to the target
for the second attack. This only applies when both
attacks are made against the same target.
