moving too fast for standard action and combat inter-
action with other characters. This is when the action
enters “chase scene” mode—a traveling narrative of
maneuvering choices and tests with various outcomes.
Whether or not a chase is actually occurring, the
gamemaster should remember that Max Velocity is
not the only factor in high-speed situations. Environ-
mental factors like terrain, weather conditions, navi-
gation, pedestrians, and traffic can provide obstacles
for shells to overcome. A shell tearing across a habitat
in order to reach a bomb before it detonates should
have to make several decisions and tests that may
affect whether it gets there in time or not. Likewise, a
shell seeking to shake off some hot pursuit will have
to pull off some fancy maneuvering and hopefully find
a shortcut or two in order to outrace their opponents.

CRASHING
Shells that suffer wounds during combat or chases
may be force to make a Pilot Test to avoid crashing
or may crash automatically. The exact circumstances
of a crash are left up to the gamemaster, as best fits
the story—the shell may simply skid to a stop, plow
into a tree, fall from the sky, or flip over and land on
a group of bystanders. Shells that strike other objects
when they crash typically take further damage from
the collision (see Collisions).

COLLISIONS
If a shell crashes into or intentionally rams a person
or object, someone is likely to get hurt. To determine
how much DV is inflicted, roll 1d10 and add the shell's
DUR divided by 10 (round up). This is the damage
applied at walking speeds. If the shell was moving at
running speeds, multiply the DV by 2. If the shell was
moving at chase speeds, multiply the DV by the shell's
velocity ÷ 10 in meters per turn. Both the shell and
whatever it strikes suffer this damage, assuming the
collision is with something equal dense and hard. Soft
and squishy objects like biomorphs will be less dam-
aging to a shell (unless they happen to be in a hardsuit
or battlesuit), in which case the shell will only suffer
half damage from the collision. Kinetic armor defends
against crash DV.
   If two moving shells collide head-on, calculate the
damage from both and inflict to both. If two shells
moving in the same direction collide, only count the
difference in velocity.
   Passengers in a vehicle may also be damaged by col-
lisions if they are not wearing proper safety restraints.
They suffer one half the DV applied to their vehicle.



         COLLISION DAMAGE
   Base Collision DV: 1d10 + (DUR ÷ 10)
   Running: DV x 2
   Chase Speeds: DV x (velocity ÷ 10)
ATTACKING VEHICLE PASSENGERS
During combat, passengers within a vehicle may be
targeted separately from the vehicle itself. Attacks
made against passengers this way do not harm the
vehicle itself (unless an area effect weapon is used).
Targeted passengers benefit both from cover (usually
Major, –30) and from the vehicle's structure, adding
the vehicle's Armor Value to their own.
  Passengers within a vehicle are generally not harmed
by attacks made against the vehicle itself. Exceptions
include area effect weapons and vehicle crashes. In
both these cases, the passengers also benefit from the
vehicle Armor Value.

SHELL REMOTE CONTROL
Any shell (or biomorph) with a puppet sock (also in-
 cluded with all cyberbrains) may be remote controlled,
 either by a character or a remote AI. This requires a
 communications link between the teleoperator and
 the shell (the “drone”). The teleoperator controls the
 drone via an entoptic interface, and receives sensory
input and other data via the drone's mesh inserts.
   When under direct control, the shell's AI (or resident
 ego) is subsumed and put on standby. The drone only
 acts as instructed. Each instruction counts as a Quick
Action. In this situation, the drone acts with the same
Initiative as the teleoperator. The teleoperator's skills and
 stats are used in place of the shell AI's. Due to the nature
 of remote operation, however, all tests are made with a
–10 modifier. Multiple drones may be controlled at once,
but commanding them requires separate Quick Actions
unless they are receiving the same command. Direct
 control teleoperation is not very feasible at extreme dis-
 tances, due to the light-speed lag with communications.
   Alternately, the teleoperator can put the drone in
autonomous mode, allowing the shell's AI to resume
 normal operations. The drone still follows the teleop-
 erator's commands to the best of its abilities. In this
 mode, the drone functions normally, using its own
Initiative and AI skills and stats.

SHELL JAMMING
“Jamming” is the colloquial term for a more direct
 form of remote-control, using VR and XP technol-
 ogy. When jamming, the drone's puppet sock feeds
 the drone's sensory data directly to the teleoperator's
 mesh inserts. The teleoperator subsumes themself in
 the drone's sensorium, essentially “becoming” the
 drone. In this case, the teleoperator surrenders con-
 trol of their own morph, which slumps inertly. While
 jamming, they suffer –60 on all Perception Tests or
 attempts to take action with their morph.
   Jamming takes a Complex Action to engage and
 disengage. A jamming teleoperator controls a drone
 as if it were their own morph. Like direct control te-
 leoperation, the jammer's own skills and Initiative are
 used in place of the drone's AI. Jammers do not suffer
 any teleoperation modifiers, but only one drone may
 be jammed at a time.
