  If the drone is killed or destroyed, the jammer is
immediately dumped from their connection, resuming
control of their own morph as normal. Getting dumped
in this manner is extremely jarring, not the least be-
cause the jammer experienced being killed/destroyed.
As a result, the jammer suffers 1d10 mental stress.

CALLED SHOTS
   Sometimes it's not enough to just hit your target—
you need to shoot out a window, knock the knife out
of their hand, or hit that hole in their armor. You may
declare that you are making a called shot before you
initiate an attack, choosing one of the outcomes noted
below. Called shots suffer a –10 modifier and require
an Excellent Success (MoS 30+). If you beat that
margin, you succeed with the called shot, and the re-
sults noted below apply. If you don't beat the margin
but still succeed in the attack, you simply strike your
target as normal.

BYPASSING ARMOR
Called shots may be used to target a hole or weak
point in your opponent's armor. If you beat the MoS,
you strike an armor-defeating hit, and their armor
does not apply. Note that in certain circumstances, a
gamemaster may rule that an opponent's armor simply
doesn't have a weak spot or unprotected area, and so
disallow such called shots.

DISARMING
You may take a called shot to attempt to knock a
weapon out of an opponent's hand(s). If you beat the
MoS, the victim suffers half damage from the attack (re-
duced by armor as normal) and must make a SOM x 3
Test with a –30 modifier to retain hold of the weapon.

SPECIFIC TARGETING
You may make a called shot with the intention of hitting
a specific location or component on your target—for
example: disabling the sensor unit on a bot, sweeping
someone's leg, or poking someone in the eye. If you beat
the MoS, you hit the specific targeted spot. The game-
master determines the result as appropriate to the attack
and target—the component may be destroyed, the op-
ponent may fall or be temporarily blinded, and so on.

CHARGING
An opponent who runs and attacks an opponent in
melee combat in the same Action Phase is considered
to be charging. A charging attacker still suffers the
–10 modifier for running, but they receive a damage
bonus on account of their momentum: increase the
damage they inflict by +1d10.

RECEIVING A CHARGE
You may delay your action (see p. 189) in order to
receive a charge, bracing yourself for impact, inter-
rupting their action, and striking right before your
charging does. In this situation, you receive a +20
modifier for striking the charging opponent.
DEMOLITIONS
The most common use of the Demolitions skill is the
placement, disarming, or manufacture of explosive
devices, such as superthermite charges (p. 330) or
grenades (p. 340).

PLACING EXPLOSIVES
A skilled demolitionist can place charges in a manner
that will boost their effect. They can identify struc-
tural vulnerabilities and weak points and focus a
blast in these areas. They can determine how to blast
open a safe without destroying the contents. They can
focus the force of an explosion in a particular direc-
tion, increasing the directed force while minimizing
splash effects.
   Each of these scenarios calls for a successful De-
molitions Test. The exact result is determined by
the gamemaster according to the specific scenario.
For example, using the examples above, targeting
a weak point could double the damage inflicted on
that structure. Shaping the charge to direct the force
can triple the damage in that direction, as noted in
the superthermite description (p. 330). An Excellent
Success is likely to increase an explosive's damage by
+5, whereas a critical success would allow the blast to
ignore armor.

DISARMING
Disarming an explosive device is handled as an Op-
posed Test between the Demolitions skills of the dis-
armer and the character who set the bomb.

MAKING EXPLOSIVES
A character trained in Demolitions can make ex-
plosives from raw materials. These materials can be
gathered the traditional way or they can be manufac-
tured using a nanofabricator. Even nanofabbers with
restricted settings to prevent explosives creation can
be used, as explosives can be constructed from all
manner of mundane chemicals and materials.
  The timeframe for making explosives is 1 hour per
1d10 points of damage the explosive will inflict. If a
critical failure is rolled, the demolitionist may acciden-
tally blow himself up, or the charge may be extremely
weaker or more potent than expected (whichever is
more likely to be disastrous).

FALLING
If a character falls, use the Falling Damage table to
determine what injuries they suffer. Kinetic armor
will mitigate this damage at
half its value (round down).
Gamemasters may also reduce             FALLING DA
this damage if anything helped
to break the fall (branches, soft      DISTANCE FALLEN
surface) at their discretion.           1–2 meters
                                        3–5 meters
                                        6–8 meters
                                        Over 8 meters
