FIRE
Objects that come into contact with extreme heat or
flames may catch fire at the gamemaster's discretion,
keeping in mind both the flammability of the material
and the strength of the heat/flames. Burning items (or
characters) will suffer 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) damage
each Action Turn unless otherwise noted. Energy
armor will protect against this damage, though it
too may catch fire, reducing its value by the damage
inflicted. Depending on the environmental conditions,
fires are likely to grow larger unless somehow abated.
Every 5 Action Turns, increase the DV inflicted (first
to 1d10, then 2d10, then 3d10, then by increments
of +5). Adverse conditions (such as rain) or efforts to
extinguish the blaze will reduce the DV accordingly.
   Note that fire does not burn in vacuum. In micro-
gravity, fire burns in a sphere and grows more slowly,
as expanding gases push away the oxygen (increase
the DV every 10 Action Turns). If there is a lack of air
circulation, some microgravity fires may extinguish
themselves.

FIRING MODES AND RATE OF FIRE
Every ranged weapon in Eclipse Phase comes with one
or more firing modes that determines their rate of fire.
These firing modes are detailed below.

SINGLE SHOT (SS)
Single shot weapons may only be fired once per
Complex Action. These are typically larger or more
archaic devices.

SEMI-AUTOMATIC (SA)
Semi-automatic weapons are capable of quick, re-
peated fire. They may be fired twice with the same
Complex Action. Each shot is handled as a separate
attack.

BURST FIRE (BF)
Burst fire weapons release a number of quick shots
(a “burst”) with a single trigger pull. Two bursts may
be fired with the same Complex Action. Each burst
is handled as a separate attack. Bursts use up 3 shots
worth of ammunition.
   A burst may be shot against a single target (concen-
trated fire), or against two targets who are standing
within one meter of each other. In the case of concen-
trated fire against a single target, increase the DV by
+1d10.

FULL AUTOMATIC (FA)
Full-auto weapons release a hail of shots with a single
trigger pull. Only one full-auto attack may be made
with each Complex Action. This attack may be made a
single target or against up to three separate targets, as
long as each is within one meter of another. In the case
of a concentrated fire on a single individual, increase
the DV by +1d10 + 10. Firing in full automatic mode
uses up 10 shots.

FULL DEFENSE
If you're expecting to come under fire, you can
expend a Complex Action to go on full defense. This
represents that you are expending all of your energy
to dodge, duck, ward off attacks, and otherwise get
the hell out of the way until your next Action Phase.
During this time, you receive a +30 modifier to defend
against all incoming attacks.
   Characters who are on full defense may use Free-
running rather than Fray skill to dodge attacks, repre-
senting the gymnastic movements they are making to
avoid being hit.

GRAVITY
Most characters in Eclipse Phase have considerable
experience maneuvering in low gravity or micro-
gravity and can perform normal actions without
penalties. Even characters who grew up on planetary
bodies or in rotating habitats have some familiarity
with alternate gravities thanks to childhood train-
ing in simulspace educational scenarios. The same is
also true in reverse; characters who grew up in free
