fall have likely experienced simulations of life in a
gravity well.
   At the gamemaster's discretion, characters who
have spent long periods acclimating to one range of
gravity may find a shift in conditions a bit challeng-
ing to cope with, at least until they grow accustomed
to the new gravity. In this case, the gamemaster can
apply a –10 modifier to both physical and social skills.
The physical penalty results from simple difficulties
in maneuvering. The social penalty applies because
it's hard to look impressive, intimidating, or seductive
when you haven't figured out how to arrange your
clothes so that they don't float up into your face. The
physical penalty can be increased to –20 for situa-
tions involving combat skills and skills requiring fine
manipulation, building, or repairing of items. These
penalties will apply until the character adjusts, which
typically takes about 3 days.
   Any biomorph with basic biomods (p. 300) is
immune to ill health from the effects of long-term
exposure to microgravity.

MICROGRAVITY
Microgravity includes both zero-G and gravities that
are slightly higher but negligible. These conditions are
found in space, on asteroids and some small moons,
and on (parts of) spaceships and habitats that are not
rotated for gravity. Objects in microgravity are effec-
tively weightless, but size and mass are still factors.
   Things behave differently in microgravity. For
example:

 - Objects not anchored down will tend to drift
   off in whatever direction they were last moving.
   Floating objects will eventually settle in the direc-
   tion of the densest part of the habitat or spacecraft.
 - Thrown or pushed items will travel in a straight
   line until they hit something.
 - Smoke does not rise in streams. Instead, it forms
   a roughly spherical halo around its source.
 - Liquids have little cohesion, scattering into clouds
   of tiny droplets if released into the air. Drinks
   come in sealed bulbs or bottles. Food is eaten so
   that sauces and bits of liquid don't escape. Blood
   goes everywhere.

  Movement and maneuvering in microgravity is
handled using Free Fall skill (p. 179). Most everyday
activity in free fall does not require a test. The game-
master can, however, call for a Free Fall Test for any
complicated maneuvers, flying across major distances,
sudden changes in direction or velocity, or when en-
gaged in melee combat. A failed roll means the char-
acter has miscalculated and ends up in a position other
than intended. A Severe Failure means the character has
screwed up badly, such as slamming themselves into a
wall or sending themselves spinning off into space.
  For convenience, most microgravity habitats
feature furniture covered with elastic loops, mesh
pockets to keep individual objects from floating all
over the place, and moving beltways with hand loops
for major thoroughfares. Magnetic or velcro shoes
are also used to walk around, rather than climbing
or flying. Zero-g environments are often designed to
make maximum use of space, however, taking advan-
tage of the lack of ceilings and floors. Because object
are weightless, characters can move even massive
objects around easily.
   Movement Rate: Characters who are climbing, pull-
ing, or pushing themselves along move at half their
movement rate (p. 191) in microgravity.
   Terminal Velocity: It is not difficult to reach escape
velocity on small asteroids and similar bodies—
something to keep in mind with thrown objects and
projectile weapons. In some cases, characters who
move fast enough and jump can reach escape veloc-
ity themselves, though these situations are left up to
the gamemaster.

LOW GRAVITY
Low gravity includes anything from 0.5 g to micro-
gravity. These conditions are found on Luna, Mars,
Titan, and the rotating parts of most spun spacecraft
and habitats. Low gravity is not that different from
standard gravity, though characters may jump twice as
far and thrown/projectile objects have a longer range
(p. 203). Increase the running rate for characters in
low gravity by x1.5.

HIGH GRAVITY
High gravity is anything significantly stronger than
standard Earth gravity (1.2 g +). High gravity in
Eclipse Phase is typically only found on exoplanets.
High gravity can be particularly hard on characters
as their bodies are strained because they carry more
weights, muscles are fatigued from needing to push
more around, and the heart must work harder to
pump blood. For every 0.2 g over 1 that a character is
not acclimated to, treat it as if the character is suffer-
ing from the effects of 1 wound. At the gamemaster's
discretion, movement rates may also be modified.

GRENADES AND SEEKERS
Modern grenades, seekers, and similar explosives do
not necessarily detonate the instant they are thrown
or strike the target. In fact, several trigger options
are available, each set by the user when deploying
the weapon. Missed attacks, or attacks that do not
explode in transit or when they strike, are subject to
scatter (p. 204).
  Airburst: Airburst means that the device explodes in
mid-air as soon as it travels a distance programmed at
launch. In this case, the explosive's effects are resolved
immediately, in that user's Action Phase. Note that
airburst munitions are programmed with a safety fea-
ture that will prevent detonation if they fail to travel
a minimum precautionary distance from the launcher,
though this can be overridden.
   Impact: The grenade or missile goes off as soon as it
hits something, whether that be the target, ground, or
