an intervening object. Resolve the effects immediately,
in the user's Action Phase.
   Signal: The munition is primed for detonation upon
receiving a command signal via wireless link. The
device simply lays in wait until it receives the proper
signal (which must include the cryptographic key
assigned when the grenade was primed), detonating
immediately when it does.
   Timer: The device has a built-in timer allowing
the user to adjust exactly when it detonates. This
can be anywhere from 1 second to days, months, or
even years later, effectively using the device like a
bomb, but also increasing the likelihood it will be
discovered and neutralized. The minimum detona-
tion period—1 second—means that the munition will
detonate on the user's (current) Initiative Score in the
next Action Phase. A 2-second delay would last two
Action Phases, a 3-second delay three Action phases,
and so on.

THROWING BACK GRENADES
It is possible that a character may be able to reach
a grenade before it detonates and throw it back (or
away in a safe direction). The character must be
within movement range of the grenade's location, and
must take a Complex Action to make a REF + COO +
COO Test to catch the rolling, sliding grenade. If they
succeed, they may throw the grenade off in a direc-
tion of their choice with the same action (treat as a
standard throwing attack).
   If the character fails the test, however, they may find
themselves at ground zero when it detonates.

JUMPING ON
Given the possibility of resleeving, a character may
decide to take one for the team and throw themselves
on a grenade, sacrificing themselves in order to protect
others. The character must be within movement range
of the grenade's location, and must take a Complex
Action to make a REF + COO + WIL Test to fall on
the grenade and cover it with their morph. This means
the character suffers an extra 1d10 damage when the
grenade detonates. On the positive side, the grenade's
damage is reduced by the sacrificing character's armor
+ 10 when its damage effects are applied to others
within the blast radius.
  If the gamemaster feels it appropriate, a WIL x 3
Test might be called for in order for a character to
sacrifice themselves in this manner.

HOSTILE ENVIRONMENTS
  The solar system might be friendly to life on a grand
scale, but if you're stranded in the gravity well of Jupi-
ter during a magnetic storm, trying to breathe without
a respirator on Mars, or swimming in hard vacuum
without a space suit, it doesn't seem so friendly. This
section describes a few of the hostile environments
that characters in Eclipse Phase might face.
ATMOSPHERIC CONTAMINATION
Habitats sometimes fall ill. The effects of a habitat
 suffering from ecological imbalance or out-of-control
pathogens can range from mildly allergenic habitat
atmospheres to rampaging environmental sepsis.
Characters without breathing or filtration gear in a
 contaminated environment should suffer penalties
to physical and possibly social skills, ranging from
–10 (mild contamination) to –30 (severely septic at-
mosphere). Depending on the contamination, other
 effects may apply, as the gamemaster sees fit.

EXTREME HEAT AND COLD
Planetary environments can range from the extremely
hot (Venus, Mercury's day side) to the extremely frigid
(Neptune, Titan, Uranus). Both are likely to kill an un-
protected and unmodified biomorph within minutes, if
not seconds. Synthmorphs and vehicles fare better, es-
pecially in the cold, but even they are likely to quickly
succumb to the blazing furnaces of the inner planets
without strong heat shields and cooling systems.

EXTREME PRESSURE
  Similarly, the atmospheric pressures of Jupiter,
Saturn, and Venus quickly become crushingly deadly
anywhere beyond the upper levels. Only synthmorphs
and vehicles with special pressure adaptations can
hope to survive such depths.

GRAVITY TRANSITION ZONES
  The widespread use of artificial gravity in space
habitats means that characters will often encounter
places where the direction of down suddenly changes.
In most rotating habitats, the standard design in-
cludes an axial zone where spacecraft can dock in
microgravity and a carefully designed and marked
transition zone (usually an elevator) where people and
cargo coming and going from the axial spaceport can
orient to local “down” and be standing in the right
place when gravity takes effect. Gravity transitions in
rotating habitats are almost always gradual but can
be very dangerous if a character encounters them in
the wrong place or time.
  A character cast adrift in the microgravity zone at
the axis of a rotating space habitat will slowly drift
outward until they begin to encounter gravity, at
which point they will fall. How long this takes varies
on the size of the habitat. A good rule of thumb is that
for each kilometer of diameter possessed by the habi-
tat, the character has 30 seconds before they begin to
fall. If the character was given a good push out from
the axis when set adrift, this time should be halved,
quartered, or more at the gamemaster's discretion.

MAGNETIC FIELDS
Magnetism isn't a direct problem for most characters;
transhumans need to worry more about the radiation
generated by a powerful magnetosphere. For un-
shielded electronic devices and similarly unshielded
transhumans sporting titanium, however, the effects
