of strong magnetic fields can be devastating. Note that
many of the conditions that result in vehicles, bots,
and gear being exposed to strong magnetic field activ-
ity coincide with strong radioactivity.
   Magnetic fields affect synthmorphs, robots, vehicles,
cybernetic implants, and electronics after 1 minute of
exposure. Like radiation exposure, these effects can
vary drastically. At the low end, communication and
sensors will suffer interference and shortened ranges;
at high ends, electronic systems will simply suffer
damage and fail.

RADIATION
Ionizing radiation is one of the more prevalent haz-
ards in the solar system and one of the most difficult
problems for transhumanity to defeat. Radiation
damages genetic material, sickens, and kills by ion-
izing the chemicals involved in cell division within the
human body. Effects range from nausea and fatigue to
massive organ failure and death. However, radiation
sickness is not solely a somatic phenomenon. The real
terror of radiation for transhumans, especially at high
dose levels such as those experienced on the surface of
Ganymede and other Jovian moons, is damage to the
neural network. This can lead to flawed uploads and
backups. Nanomedicine that can rapidly reverse the
ionization of cellular chemicals and new materials that
offer thinner and better shielding help, but the sheer
magnitude of the radiation put out by some bodies in
the solar system defeats even these.
   Radiation poisoning is a complicated affair, and de-
tailed rules are beyond the scope of this book. Sources
of radiation include the Earth's Van Allen belt, Jupi-
ter's radiation belt, Saturn's magnetosphere, cosmic
rays, solar flares, fission materials, unshielded fusion
or antimatter explosions, and nuclear blasts, among
others. Effects can vary drastically depending on the
strength of the source, the amount of time exposed,
and the level of shielding available. The immediate
effects on biomorphs (manifesting anywhere from
within minutes to 6 hours) can include nausea, vomit-
ing, fatigue (reduced SOM), as well as both physical
damage and minor amounts of mental stress. This
is followed by a latency period where the biomorph
seems to get better, lasting anywhere from 6 hours
to 2 weeks. After this point, the final effects kick in,
which can include hair loss, sterility, reduced SOM
and DUR, severe damage to gastric and intestinal
tissue, infections, uncontrolled bleeding, and death.
   Synthmorphs are not quite as vulnerable as
biomorphs, but even they can be damaged and dis-
abled by severe radiation dosages.

TOXIC ATMOSPHERE
Neptune, Titan, Uranus, and Venus all have toxic
atmospheres. Similar atmospheres may be found on
some exoplanets, or might be intentionally created as
a security measure within a habitat or structure.
  A character who is unaware of atmospheric toxicity
and does not immediately hold their breath (requir-
ing a REF x 3 Test) suffers 10 points of damage per
Action Turn. A character who manages to hold their
breath can last a bit longer; apply the rules for as-
phyxiation (p. 194).
  Corrosive Atmospheres: In addition to being toxic,
Venus has the only naturally occurring corrosive at-
mosphere in the system. Corrosive atmospheres are
immediately dangerous: characters take 10 points of
damage per Action Turn, regardless of whether they
hold their breath or not. Corrosive atmospheres also
damage vehicles and gear not equipped with anti-
corrosive shielding. Such items take 1 point of damage
per minute. At greater concentrations, such as in the
dense sulfuric acid clouds in the upper atmosphere of
Venus, items takes 5 points of damage per minute.

UNBREATHABLE ATMOSPHERE
Very few of the planetary bodies in the solar system
actually have toxic atmospheres. In most unbreathable
atmospheres, the primary hazard for transhumans
without breathing apparatus or modifications to their
morph is lack of oxygen. Treat exposure to unbreath-
able atmospheres the same as asphyxiation.

UNDERWATER
In general, any physical skill performed underwater suf-
fers a –20 penalty due to the resistance of the medium.
Skills relying on equipment not adapted for underwa-
ter use may be more difficult or impossible to use. A
character's movement rate while swimming or walking
underwater is one quarter their normal rate on land.
If a character begins to drown underwater, follow the
rules for asphyxiation (p. 194). Note that drowning
characters do not immediately recover if rescued from
the water; they will continue to asphyxiate until medical
treatment is applied to clear the water from their lungs.

VACUUM
   Biomorphs without vacuum sealing (p. 305) can
spend one minute in the vacuum of space with no ill
effects, provided they curl up into a ball, empty their
lungs of air, and keep their eyes closed (something kids
in space habitats learn at a very young age). Contrary
to popular depictions in pre-Fall media, a character
exposed to hard vacuum does not explosively de-
compress, nor do their internal fluids boil (other than
relatively exposed liquids such as saliva on the tongue).
Rather, the primary danger for characters on EVA sans
vacsuit is asphyxiation due to lack of oxygen and as-
sociated complications such as edema in the lungs.
   After one minute in space, the character begins to
suffer from asphyxiation (p. 194). Damage is doubled
if the character tries to hold air in their lungs or is not
curled up in a vacuum survival position as described
above. Additionally, characters trapped in space with-
out adequate thermal protection suffer 10 points of
damage per minute from the extreme cold.
