                                         IMPROVISE
                      ARMOR
WEAPONS           PENETRATION (AP)           DAMAGE VALU
Baseball                  —                  (1d10 ÷ 2) + (SOM
Bottle                    —             1 + (SOM ÷ 10), break
Bottle (Broken)           —                     1d10 – 1 (min
Chain                     —                    1d10 + (SOM ÷
Helmet                    —                    1d10 + (SOM ÷
Plasma Torch              –6                          2d10
Wrench                    —                    1d10 + (SOM ÷


 IMPROVISED WEAPONS
 Sometimes characters are caught off-guard and they
 must use whatever they happen to have at hand as
 a weapon—or they think they look cool wailing on
 someone with a meter of chain. The Improvised Weap-
 ons table offers statistics for a few likely ad-hoc items.
 Gamemasters can use these as guidelines for handling
 items that aren't listed.

 KNOCKDOWN/KNOCKBACK
 If an attacker's intent is to simply knock an opponent
 down or back in melee, rather than injure them, roll
 the attack and defense as normal. If the attacker suc-
 ceeds, the defender is knocked backward by 1 meter
 per 10 full points of MoS. To knock an opponent
 down, the attacker must score an Excellent Success
 (MoS 30+). A knockback/knockdown attack must be
 declared before dice are rolled.
    Unless the attacker rolls a critical success, no
 damage is inflicted with this attack, the defender is
 simply knocked down. If the attacker rolls a critical
 hit, however, apply damage as normal in addition to
 the knockback/knockdown.
    Note that characters wounded by an attack may
 also be knocked down (see Wound Effects, p. 207).

 MELEE AND THROWN DAMAGE BONUS
 Every successful melee and thrown weapon attack,
 whether unarmed or with a weapon, receives a damage
 bonus equal to the attacker's SOM ÷ 10, round down.
 See Damage Bonus, p. 123.

 MULTIPLE TARGETS
 When doling out the damage, there's no reason not to
 share the love.

 MELEE COMBAT
 A character taking a Complex Action to engage in a
 melee attack may choose to attack two or more op-
 ponents with the same action. Each opponent must be
 within one meter of another attacked opponent. These
 attacks must be declared before the dice are rolled for
 the first attack. Each attack suffers a cumulative –20
 modifier for each extra target. So if a character declares
 they are going to attack three characters with the same
 action, they suffer a cumulative –60 on each attack.
WEAPONS
V)                 AVERAGE DV                    SKILL
10)               2 + (SOM ÷ 10)           Throwing Weapons
er 1 use          1 + (SOM ÷ 10)       Clubs or Throwing Weapons
                         4                       Blades
                  5 + (SOM ÷ 10)              Exotic Melee
                  5 + (SOM ÷ 10)       Clubs or Throwing Weapons
                        11                   Exotic Ranged
                  5 + (SOM ÷ 10)                 Clubs


      RANGED COMBAT
     A character firing two semi-auto shots with a Complex
     Action may target a different opponent with each shot.
     In this case, the attacker suffers a –20 modifier against
     the second target.
        A character firing a burst-fire weapon may target up
     to two targets with each burst, as long as those targets
     are within one meter of one another. This is handled
     as a single attack; see Burst Fire, p. 198.
        A character firing a burst-fire weapon twice with
     one Complex Action may target a different person or
     pair with each burst. In this case, the second burst
     suffers a –20 modifier. This modifier does not apply
     if the same person/pair targeted with the first burst is
     targeted again.
        Full-auto attacks may also be directed at more than
     one target, as long as each target is within one meter
     of the previous target. This is handled as a single
     attack; see Full Auto, p. 198.

      OBJECTS AND STRUCTURES
     As any poor wall in the vicinity of an enraged drunk
     can tell you, objects and structures are not immune
     to violence and attrition. To reflect this, inanimate
     objects and structures are given Durability, Wound
     Threshold, and Armor scores, just like characters. Du-
     rability measures how much damage the structure can
     take before it is destroyed. Armor reduces the damage
     inflicted by attacks, as normal. For simplicity, a single
     Armor rating is given that counts as both Energy and
     Kinetic armor; at the gamemaster's discretion, these
     may be modified as appropriate.
       Wounds suffered by objects and structures do not have
     the same effect as wounds inflicted on characters. Each
     wound is simply treated as a hole, partial demolition, or
     impaired function, as the gamemaster sees fit. Alternately,
     a wounded device may function less effectively, and so
     may inflict a negative modifier on skill tests made while
     using that object (a cumulative –10 per wound).
        In the case of large structures, it is recommended
     that individual parts of the structure be treated as
     separate entities for the purpose of inflicting damage.

      RANGED ATTACKS
     Ranged combat attacks inflict only one-third their
     damage (round down) on large structures such
