REACH
Some weapons extend a character's reach, giving
them a significant advantage over an opponent in
melee combat. This applies to any weapon over half
a meter long: axes, clubs, swords, shock batons, etc.
Whenever one character has a reach advantage over
another, they receive a +10 modifier for both attacking
and defending.

SCATTER
When you are using a blast weapon, you may still
catch your target in the blast radius even if you fail to
hit them directly. Weapons such as grenades must go
somewhere when they miss, and exactly where they
land may be important to the outcome of a battle. To
determine where a missed blast attack falls, the scatter
rules are called into play.
  To determine scatter, roll a d10 and note where the
die “points” (using yourself as the reference point).
This is the direction from the target that the missed
blast lands. The die roll also determines how far away
the blast lands, in meters. If the MoF on the attack is
over 30, this distance is doubled. If the MoF exceeds
60, the distance is tripled. This point determines the
epicenter of the blast; resolve the effects of damage
against anyone caught within its sphere of effect as
normal (see Blast Effect, p. 193).



                        1 or 2
                  10               3

              9                         4

                  8                5
                        6 or 7

SHOCK ATTACKS
Shock weapons use high-voltage electrical jolts to
physically stun and incapacitate targets. Shock weap-
ons are particularly effective against biomorphs and
pods, even when heavily armored. Synthmorphs, bots,
and vehicles are immune to shock weapon effects.
   A biomorph struck with a shock weapon must
make a DUR + Energy Armor Test (using their cur-
rent DUR score, reduced by damage they have taken).
If they fail, they immediately lose neuromuscular
 control, fall down, and are incapacitated for 1 Action
Turn per 10 full points of MoF (minimum of 3 Action
Turns). During this time they are stunned and inca-
pable of taking any action, possibly convulsing, suf-
fering vertigo, nausea, etc. After this period, they may
act but they remain stunned and shaken, suffering a
–30 modifier to all actions. This modifier reduces by
10 per minute (so –20 after 1 minute, –10 after 2 min-
utes, and no modifier after 3 minutes). Many shock
weapons also inflict DV, which is handled as normal.
   A biomorph that succeeds the DUR Test is still
shocked but not incapacitated. They suffer half the
listed DV and suffer a –30 modifier until the end of
the next Action Turn. This modifier reduces by 10 per
Action Turn. Modifiers from additional shocks are
not cumulative, but will boost the modifier back to
its maximum value.

SUBDUAL
To grapple an opponent in melee combat, you must
declare your intent to subdue before making the die
roll. Any appropriate melee skill may be used for the
attack; if wielding a weapon, it may be used as part of
the grappling technique. If you succeed in your attack
with an Excellent Success (MoS of 30+), you have suc-
cessfully subdued your opponent (for the moment, at
least). Grappling attacks do not cause damage unless
you roll a critical success (though even in this case you
can choose not to).
   A subdued opponent is temporarily restrained or
immobilized. They may communicate, use mental
skills, and take mesh actions, but they may not take
any physical actions other than trying to break free.
(At the gamemaster's discretion, they may make small,
restrained physical actions, such as reaching for a
knife in their pocket or grabbing an item dropped a
few centimeters away on the floor, but these actions
should suffer at least a –30 modifier and may be no-
ticed by their grappler).
   To break free, a grappled character must take a
Complex Action and succeed in either an Opposed
Unarmed Combat Test or an Opposed SOM x 3 Test,
though the subdued character suffers a –30 modifier
on this test.

SUPPRESSIVE FIRE
A character firing a weapon in full-auto mode (p. 198)
may choose to lay down suppressive fire over an area
rather than targeting anyone specifically, with the
intent of making everyone in the suppressed area keep
their heads down. This takes a Complex Action, uses
up 20 shots, and lasts until the character's next Action
Phase. The suppressed area extends out in a cone, with
the widest diameter of the cone being up to 20 meters
across. Any character who is not behind cover or who
does not immediately move behind cover on their
action is at risk of getting hit by the suppressive fire. If
they move out of cover inside the suppressed area, the
character laying down suppressive fire gets one free
attack against them, which they may defend against
as normal. Apply no modifiers to these tests except
for range, wounds, and full defense. If hit, the struck
character must resist damage as if from a single shot.

SURPRISE
Characters who wish to ambush another must seek to
gain the advantage of surprise. This typically means
sneaking up on, lying in wait, or sniping from a hard-
to-perceive position in the distance. Any time an am-
busher (or group of ambushers) attempts to surprise a
