target (or group of targets), make a secret Perception
Test for the ambushee(s). Unless they are alert for sur-
prises, this test should suffer the typical –20 modifier
for being distracted. This is an Opposed Test against
the ambusher(s) Infiltration skill. Depending on the
attacker's position, other modifiers may also apply
(distance, visibility, cover, etc.).
   If the Perception Test fails, the character is surprised
by the attack and cannot react to or defend against it. In
this case, simply give the attacker(s) a free Action Phase
to attack the surprised character(s). Once the attackers
have taken their actions, roll Initiative as normal.
   If the Perception Test succeeds, the character is
alerted to something a split-second before they are
ambushed, giving them a chance to react. In this case,
roll Initiative as normal, but the ambushed character(s)
suffers a –30 modifier to the Initiative Test. The am-
bushed character may still defend as normal.
   In a group situation, things can get more compli-
cated when some characters are surprised and others
aren't. In this case, roll Initiative as normal, with all
non-ambushers suffering the –30 modifier. Any charac-
ters who are surprised are simply unable to take action
on the first Action Phase, as they are caught off-guard
and must take a moment to assess what's going on
and get caught up with the action. As above, surprised
characters my not defend on this first Action Phase.

TACTICAL NETWORKS
Tactical networks are specialized software programs
used by teams that benefit from the sharing of tacti-
cal data. They are commonly used by sports teams,
security outfits, military units, AR gamers, gatecrash-
ers, surveyors, miners, traffic control, scavengers, and
anyone else who needs a tactical overview of a situa-
tion. Firewall teams regularly take advantage of them.
   In game terms, tacnets provide specialized software
skills and tools to a muse or AI, as best fits their tac-
tical needs. These tools link together and share and
analyze data between all of the participants in the
network, creating a customizable entoptics display for
each user that summarizes relevant data, highlights
interactions and priorities, and alerts the user to mat-
ters that require their attention.
COMBAT TACNETS
The following list is a sample of a typical combat tacnet's
features. Gamemasters are encouraged to modify and
expand these options as appropriate to their game:

  - Maps: Tacnets assemble all available maps and
    can present them to the user with a bird's eye
    view or as a three-dimensional interactive, with
    distances between relevant features readily acces-
    sible. The AI or muse can also plot maps based
    on sensory input, breadcrumb positioning sys-
    tems (p. 332), and other data. Plotted paths and
    other data from these maps can be displayed as
    entoptic images or other AR sensory input (e.g.,
    a user who should be turning left might see a
    transparent red arrow or feel a tingling sensation
    on their left side).
  - Positioning: The exact positioning of the user and
    all other participants are updated and mapped
    according to mesh positioning and GPS. Likewise,
    the positioning of known people, bots, vehicles,
    and other features can also be plotted according
    to sensory input.
  - Sensory Input: Any sensory input available to a
    participating character or device in the network
    can be fed into the system and shared. This
    includes data from cybernetic senses, portable
    sensors, smartlink guncams, XP output, etc. This
    allows one user to immediately call up and access
    the sensor feed of another user.
  - Communications Management: The tacnet
    maintains an encrypted link between all users
    and stays wary both of participants who drop
    out or of attempts to hack or interfere with the
    communications link.
  - Smartlink/Weapon Data: The tacnet monitors the
    status of weapons, accessories, and other gear via
    the smartlink interface or wireless link, bringing
    damage, shortages, and other issues to the user's
    attention.
  - Indirect Fire: Members of a tacnet can provide
    targeting data to each other for purposes of indi-
    rect fire (p. 195).
  - Analysis: The muses and AIs participating in
    the tacnet are bolstered with skill software and
