     databases that enable them to interpret incom-
     ing data and sensory feeds. Perhaps the most
     useful aspect of tacnets, this means that the
     muse/AI may notice facts or details individual
     users are likely to have overlooked. For example,
     the tacnet can count shots fired by opponents,
     note when they are likely running low, and
     even analyze sensory input to determine the
     type of weaponry and ammunition being used.
     Opponents and their gear can also be scanned
     and analyzed to note potential weaknesses, in-
     juries, and capabilities. If sensor contact with
     an opponent is lost, the last known location is
     memorized and potential movement vectors and
     distances are displayed. Opponent positioning
     can also identify lines of sight and fields of fire,
     alerting the user to areas of potential cover or
     danger. The tacnet can also suggest tactical ma-
     neuvers that will aid the user, such as flanking an
     opponent or acquiring better elevation.

  Many of these features are immediately accessible
to the user via their AR display; other data can be ac-
cessed with a Quick Action. Likewise, the gamemaster
decides when the muse/AI provides important alerts to
the user. At the gamemaster's discretion, some of these
features may apply modifiers to the character's tests.

TOUCH-ONLY ATTACK
Some types of attacks simply require you to touch your
target, rather than injure them, and are correspond-
ingly easier. This might apply when trying to slap them
with a dermal drug patch, spreading a contact poison
on their skin, or making skin-to-skin contact for the
use of a psi sleight. In situations like this, apply a +20
modifier to your melee attacks.

TWO-HANDED WEAPONS
Any weapon noted as two-handed requires two hands
(or other prehensile limbs) to wield effectively. This
applies to some archaic melee weapons (large swords,
spears, etc.) in addition to certain larger firearms and
heavy weapons. Any character that attempts to use
such a weapon single-handed suffers a –20 modifier.

WIELDING TWO OR MORE WEAPONS
It is possible for a character to wield two weapons
in combat, or even more if they are an octomorph or
multi-limbed synthmorph. In this case, each weapon
that is held in an off-hand suffers a –20 off-hand
weapon modifier. This modifier may be offset with the
Ambidextrous trait (p. 145).

EXTRA MELEE WEAPONS
The use of two or more melee weapons is treated as
a single attack, rather than multiple. Each additional
weapon applies +1d10 damage to the attack (up to a
maximum +3d10). If the character attacks multiple
targets with the same Complex Action (see Mul-
tiple Targets, p. 202), this bonus does not apply. The
attacker must, of course, be capable of actually wield-
ing the additional weapons. A splicer with only two
hands cannot wield a knife and a two-handed sword,
for example. Likewise, the gamemaster may ignore
this damage bonus for extra weapons that are too dis-
similar to use together effectively (like a whip and a
pool cue). Note that extra limbs do not count as extra
weapons in unarmed combat, nor do weapons that
come as a pair (such as shock gloves).
  A character using more than one melee weapon
receives a bonus for defending against melee attacks
equal to +10 per extra weapon  (maximum +30).

EXTRA RANGED WEAPONS
Similarly, an attacker can wield a pistol in each hand
for ranged combat, or larger weapons if they have
more limbs (an eight-limbed octomorph, for example,
could conceivably hold four assault rifles). These
weapons may all be fired at once towards the same
target. In this case, each weapon is handled as a sepa-
rate attack, with each off-hand weapon suffering a
cumulative off-hand weapon modifier (no modifier for
the first attack, –20 for the second, –40 for the third,
and –60 for the fourth), offset by the Ambidextrous
trait (p. 145) as usual.



PHYSICAL HEALTH
In a setting as dangerous as Eclipse Phase, characters
are inevitably going to get hurt. Whether your morph
is biological or synthetic, you can be injured by weap-
ons, brawling, falling, accidents, extreme environ-
ments, psi attacks, and so on. This section discusses
how to track such injuries and determine what effect
they have on your character. Two methods are used
to gauge a character's physical health: damage points
and wounds.

DAMAGE POINTS
Any physical harm that befalls your character is mea-
sured in damage points. These points are cumulative,
and are recorded on your character sheet. Damage
points are characterized as fatigue, stun, bruises,
bumps, sprains, minor cuts, and similar hurts that,
while painful, do not significantly impair or threaten
your character's life unless they accumulate to a signif-
icant amount. Any source of harm that inflicts a large
amount of damage points at once, however, is likely to
have a more severe effect (see Wounds, p. 207).
   Damage points may be reduced by rest, medical
care, and/or repair (see Healing and Repair, p. 208).

DAMAGE TYPES
Physical damage comes in three forms: Energy, Kinetic,
and Psi.

ENERGY DAMAGE
Energy damage includes lasers, plasma guns, fire, electro-
cution, explosions, and others sources of damaging energy.
