KINETIC DAMAGE
Kinetic damage is caused by projectiles and other
objects moving at great speeds that disperse their
energy into the target upon impact. Kinetic attacks
include slug-throwers, flechette weapons, knives, and
punches.

PSI DAMAGE
Psi damage is caused by offensive psi sleights like
Psychic Stab (p. 228).

DURABILITY AND HEALTH
Your character's physical health is measured by their
Durability stat. For characters sleeved in biomorphs,
this figure represents the point at which accumu-
lated damage points overwhelm your character and
they fall unconscious. Once you have accumulated
damage points equal to or exceeding your Durability
stat, you immediately collapse from exhaustion and
physical abuse. You remain unconscious and may
not be revived until your damage points are reduced
below your Durability, either from medical care or
natural healing.
   If you are morphed in a synthetic shell, Durabil-
ity represents your structural integrity. You become
physically disabled when accumulated damage points
reach your Durability. Though your computer systems
are likely still functioning and you can still mesh, your
morph is broken and immobile until repaired.

DEATH
An extreme accumulation of damage points can
threaten your character's life. If the damage reaches
your Durability x 1.5 (for biomorphs) or Durability x
2 (for synthetic morphs), your body dies. This known
as your Death Rating. Synthetic morphs that reach
this state are destroyed beyond repair.

DAMAGE VALUE
Weapons (and other sources of injury) in Eclipse
Phase have a listed Damage Value (DV)—the base
amount of damage points the weapon inflicts. This is
often presented as a variable amount, in the form of a
die roll; for example: 3d10. In this case, you roll three
ten-sided dice and add up the results (counting 0 as
10). Sometimes the DV will be presented as a dice roll
plus modifier; for example: 2d10 + 5. In this case you
roll two ten-sided dice, add them together, and then
add 5 to get the result.
  For simplicity, a static amount is also noted in
parentheses after the variable amount. If you prefer
to skip the dice rolling, you can just apply the static
amount (usually close to the mean average) instead.
For example, if the damage were noted 2d10 + 5 (15),
you could simply apply 15 damage points instead of
rolling dice.
  When damage is inflicted on a character, determine the
DV (roll the dice) and subtract the modified armor value,
as noted under Step 7: Determine Damage (p. 192).
WOUNDS
Wounds represent more grievous injuries: bad cuts and
hemorrhaging, fractures and breaks, mangled limbs,
and other serious damage that impairs your ability to
function and may lead to death or long-term damage.
  Any time your character sustains damage, compare
the amount inflicted (after it has been reduced by
armor) to your Wound Threshold. If the modified DV
equals or exceeds your Wound Threshold, you have
suffered a wound. If the inflicted damage is double
your Wound Threshold, you suffer 2 wounds; if
triple your Wound Threshold, you suffer 3 wounds;
and so on.
  Wounds are cumulative, and must be marked on
your character sheet.
   Note that these rules handle damage and wounds
as an abstract concept. For drama and realism,
gamemasters may wish to describe wounds in more
detailed and grisly terms: a broken ankle, a severed
tendon, internal bleeding, a lost ear, and so on. The
nature of such descriptive injuries may help the game-
master assign other effects. For example, a character
with a crushed hand may not be able to pick up a gun,
someone with excessive blood loss may leave a trail
for their enemies to follow, or someone with a cut eye
may suffer an additional visual perception modifier.
Likewise, such details may impact how a character is
treated or heals.

WOUND EFFECTS
Each wound applies a cumulative –10 modifier to all
of the character's actions. A character with 3 wounds,
for example, suffers –30 to all actions.
  Some traits, morphs, implants, drugs, and psi allow
a character to ignore wound modifiers. These effects
are cumulative, though the maximum amount of
wound modifiers that may be negated is –30.
  Knockdown: Any time a character takes a wound,
they must make an immediate SOM x 3 Test. Wound
modifiers apply. If they fail, they are knocked down
and must expend a Quick Action to get back up. Bots
and vehicles must make a Pilot Test to avoid crashing.
  Unconsciousness: Any time a character receives 2
or more wounds at once (from the same attack), they
must also make an immediate SOM x 3 Test; wound
modifiers again apply. If they fail, they have been
knocked unconscious. Bots and vehicles that take 2 or
more wounds at once automatically crash (see Crash-
ing, p. 196).
  Bleeding: Any biomorph character who has suffered
a wound and who takes damage that exceeds their
Durability is in danger of bleeding to death. They
incur 1 additional damage point per Action Turn (20
per minute) until they receive medical care or die.

DEATH
For many people in Eclipse Phase, death is not the end
of the line. If the character's cortical stack can be re-
trieved, they can be resurrected and downloaded into
a new morph (see Resleeving, p. 271). This typically
