 requires either backup insurance (p. 269) or the good
 graces of whomever ends up with their body/stack.
    If the cortical stack is not retrievable, the character
 still be re-instantiated from an archived backup (p.
 268). Again, this either requires backup insurance or
 someone who is willing to pay to have them revived.
    If the character's cortical stack is not retrieved
 and they have no backup, then they are completely
 and utterly dead. Gone. Kaput. (Unless they happen
 to have an alpha fork of themselves floating around
 somewhere; see Forking and Merging, p. 273.)



 HEALING AND REPAIR
 Use the follow rules for healing and repairing dam-
 aged and wounded characters.

 BIOMORPH HEALING
 Thanks to advanced medical technologies, there are
 many ways for characters in biological morphs (in-
 cluding pods) to heal injuries. Medichine nanoware
 (p. 308) helps characters to heal quickly, as do nano-
 bandages (p. 333). Healing vats (p. 326) will heal even
 the most grievous wounds in a matter of days, and
 can even restore characters who recently died or have
 been reduced to just a head.
   Characters without access to these medical tools are
 not without hope, of course. The medical skills of a
 trained professional can abate the impact of wounds,
 and over time bodies will of course heal themselves.

 MEDICAL CARE
 Characters with an appropriate Medicine skill (such
 as Medicine: Paramedic or Medicine: Trauma Sur-
 gery) can perform first aid on damaged or wounded
 characters. A successful Medicine Test, modified as
 the gamemaster deems fit according to situational
 conditions, will heal 1d10 points of damage and will
 remove 1 wound. This test must be made within 24
 hours of the injury, and any particular injury may only
 be treated once. If the character is later injured again,
 however, this new damage may also be treated. Medi-
 cal care of this sort is not effective against injuries that
 have been treated with medichines, nanobandages, or
 healing vats.



                                                                  HEA
CHARACTER SITUATION
Character without basic biomods
Character with basic biomods
Character using nanobandage
Character with medichines
Poor conditions (bad food, not enough rest/heavy activity,
poor shelter and/or sanitation)
Harsh conditions (insufficient food, no rest/strenuous activity,
little or no shelter and/or sanitation)
  NATURAL HEALING
  Characters trapped far from medical technology—in
  a remote station, the wilds of Mars, or the like—may
  be forced to heal naturally if injured. Natural healing
  is a slow process that's heavily influenced by a number
  of factors. In order for a character to heal wounds,
  all normal damage must be healed first. Consult the
  Healing table.

  SURGERY
 In Eclipse Phase, most grievous injuries can be han-
 dled by time in a healing vat (p. 326) or simply rest
 and recovery. In circumstances where a healing vat is
 not available, the gamemaster may decide that a par-
 ticular wound requires actual surgery from an intelli-
 gent being (whether a character or AI-driven medbot).
 Usually in this case the character will be incapable of
 further healing until the surgery occurs. The surgery
 is handled as a Medical Test using a field appropriate
 to the situation and with a timeframe of 1–8 hours. If
 successful, the character is healed of 1d10 damage and
 1 wound and recovers from that point on as normal.

  SYNTHMORPH AND OBJECT REPAIR
  Unlike biomorphs, synthetic morphs and objects do not
  heal damage on their own and must be repaired. Some
  synthmorphs and devices have advanced nanotech self-
  repair systems, similar to medichines for biomorphs (see
  Fixers, p. 329). Repair spray (p. 333) may also be used
  to conduct fixes and is an extremely useful option for
  non-technical people. Barring these options, technicians
  may also work repairs the old-fashioned way, using
  their skills and tools (see Physical Repairs, below). As a
  last resort, synthmorphs and objects may be repaired in
  a nanofabrication machine with the appropriate blue-
  prints (using the same rules as healing vats, p. 326).

  PHYSICAL REPAIRS
  Manually fixing a synthmorph or object requires a
  Hardware Test using a field appropriate to the item
  (Hardware: Robotics for synthmorphs and bots,
  Hardware: Aerospace for aircraft, etc.), with a –10
  modifier per wound. Repair is a Task Action with
  a timeframe of 2 hours per 10 points of damage
  being restored, plus 8 hours per wound. Appropriate



ING
AMAGE HEALING RATE              WOUND HEALING RATE
  1d10 (5) per day                     1 per week
1d10 (5) per 12 hours                  1 per 3 days
 1d10 (5) per 2 hours                   1 per day
 1d10 (5) per 1 hour                  1 per 12 hours

  double timeframe                  double timeframe

   triple timeframe                 no wound healing
