modifiers should be applied, based on conditions and
available tools. For example, utilitools (p. 326) apply
a +20 modifier to repair tests, while repair spray ap-
plies a +30 modifier.

REPAIRING ARMOR
Armor may be repaired in the same manner as Dura-
bility, however, wounds do not impact the test with
modifiers or extra time.



MENTAL HEALTH
   In a time when people can discard bodies and
replace them with new ones, trauma inflicted on
your mind and ego—your sense of self—is often
more frightening than grievous physical harm. There
are many ways in which your sanity and mental
wholeness can be threatened: experiencing physical
death, extended isolation, loss of loved ones, alien
situations, discontinuity of self from lost memories
or switching morphs, psi attack, and so on. Two
methods are used to gauge your mental health: stress
points and trauma.

STRESS POINTS
Stress points represent fractures in your ego's in-
tegrity, cracks in the mental image of yourself. This
mental damage is experienced as cerebral shocks,
disorientation, cognitive disconnects, synaptic mis-
fires, or an undermining of the intellectual faculties.
On their own, these stress points do not significantly
impair your character's functioning, but if allowed to
accumulate they can have severe repercussions. Ad-
ditionally, any source that inflicts a large amount of
stress points at once is likely to have a more severe
impact (see Trauma).
   Stress points may be reduced by long-term rest, psy-
chiatric care, and/or psychosurgery (see p. 214).

LUCIDITY AND STRESS
Your Lucidity stat benchmarks your character's mental
stability. If you build up an amount of stress points
equal to or greater than your Lucidity score, your char-
acter's ego immediately suffers a mental breakdown.
You effectively go into shock and remain in a catatonic
state until your stress points are reduced to a level
below your Lucidity stat. Accumulated stress points
will overwhelm egos housed inside synthetic shells or
infomorphs just as they will biological brains—the
mental software effectively seizes up, incapable of
functioning until it is debugged.

INSANITY RATING
Extreme amounts of built-up stress points can perma-
nently damage your character's sanity. If accumulated
stress points reach your Lucidity x 2, your character's
ego undergoes a permanent meltdown. Your mind is
lost, and no amount of psych help or rest will ever
bring it back.
STRESS VALUE
Any source capable of inflicting cognitive stress is given
a Stress Value (SV). This indicates the amount of stress
points the attack or experience inflicts upon a character.
Like DV, SV is often presented as a variable amount, such
as 2d10, or sometimes with a modifier, such as 2d10 +
10. Simply roll the dice and total the amounts to deter-
mine the stress points inflicted in that instance. To make
things easier, a static SV is also given in parentheses after
the variable amount; use that set amount when you wish
to keep the game moving and don't want to roll dice.

TRAUMA
Mental trauma is more severe than stress points. Trau-
mas represent severe mental shocks, a crumbling of
personality/self, delirium, paradigm shifts, and other
serious cognitive malfunctions. Traumas impair your
character's functioning and may result in temporary
derangements or permanent disorders.
  If your character receives a number of stress points
at once that equals or exceeds their Trauma Thresh-
old, they have suffered a trauma. If the inflicted stress
points are double or triple the Trauma Threshold, they
suffer 2 or 3 traumas, respectively, and so on. Trau-
mas are cumulative and must be recorded on your
character sheet.

TRAUMA EFFECTS
Each trauma applies a cumulative –10 modifier to all
of the character's actions. A character with 2 traumas,
for example, suffers –20 to all actions. These modifiers
are also cumulative with wound modifiers.
   Disorientation: Any time a character suffers a
trauma, they must make an immediate WIL x 3 Test.
Trauma modifiers apply. If they fail, they are tempo-
rarily stunned and disoriented, and must expend a
Complex Action to regain their wits.
   Derangements and Disorders: Any time a character
is hit with a trauma, they suffer a temporary derange-
ment (see Derangements). The first trauma inflicts a
minor derangement. If a second trauma is applied,
the first derangement is either upgraded from minor
to a moderate derangement, or else a second minor
derangement is applied (gamemaster's discretion).
Likewise, a third trauma may upgrade that derange-
ment from moderate to major or else inflict a new
minor. It is generally recommended that derangements
be upgraded in potency, especially when result from
the same set of ongoing circumstances. In the case of
traumas that result from distinctly separate situations
and sources, separate derangements may be applied.
   Disorder: When four or more traumas have been
inflicted on a character, a major derangement is up-
graded to a disorder. Disorders represent long-lasting
psychological afflictions that typically require weeks
or even months of psychotherapy and/or psychosur-
gery to remedy (see Disorders, p. 211).
