DERANGEMENTS
Derangements are temporary mental conditions that
result from traumas. Derangements are measured as
Minor, Moderate, or Major. The gamemaster and
player should cooperate in choosing which derange-
ment to apply, as appropriate to the scenario and
character personality.
   Derangements last for 1d10 ÷ 2 hours (round
down), or until the character receives psychiatric help,
whichever comes first. At the gamemaster's discretion,
a derangement may last longer if the character has not
been distanced from the source of the stress, or if they
remain embroiled in other stress-inducing situations.
   Derangement effects are meant to be role-played.
The player should incorporate the derangement into
their character's words and actions. If the gamemaster
doesn't feel the player is stressing the effects enough,
they can emphasize them. If the gamemaster feels it is
appropriate, they may also call for additional modi-
fiers or tests for certain actions.

ANXIETY (MINOR)
You suffer a panic attack, exhibiting the physiological
conditions of fear and worry: sweatiness, racing heart,
trembling, shortness of breath, headaches, and so on.

AVOIDANCE (MINOR)
You are psychologically incapable with dealing with
the source of the stress, or some circumstance related
to it, so you avoid it—even covering your ears, curl-
ing up in a ball, or shutting off your sensors if you
have to.

DIZZINESS (MINOR)
The stress makes you light-headed and disoriented.

ECHOLALIA (MINOR)
You involuntarily repeat words and phrases spoken
by others.

FIXATION (MINOR)
You become fixated on something that you did wrong
or some circumstance that led to your stress. You
obsess over it, repeating the behavior, trying to fix it,
running scenarios through your head and out loud,
and so on.

HUNGER (MINOR)
You are suddenly consumed by an irrational yet
overwhelming desire to eat something—perhaps even
something unusual.

INDECISIVENESS (MINOR)
You are flustered by the cause of your stress, finding it
difficult to make choices or select courses of action.
