LOGORRHOEA (MINOR)
Your response to the trauma is to engage in excessive
talking and babbling. You don't shut up.

NAUSEA (MINOR)
The stress sickens you, forcing you to fight down
queasiness.

CHILLS (MODERATE)
Your body temperature rises, making you feel cold,
and shivering sets in. You just can't get warm.

CONFUSION (MODERATE)
The trauma scrambles your concentration, making
you forget what you're doing, mix up simple tasks,
and falter over easy decisions.

ECHOPRAXIA (MODERATE)
You involuntarily repeat and mimic the actions of
others around you.

MOOD SWINGS (MODERATE)
You lose control of your emotions. You switch from
ecstasy to tears and back to rage without warning.

MUTE (MODERATE)
The trauma shocks you into speechlessness and a com-
plete inability to effectively communicate.

NARCISSISM (MODERATE)
In the wake of the mental shock, all you can think
about is yourself. You cease caring about those around
you.

PANIC (MODERATE)
You are overwhelmed by fear or anxiety and immedi-
ately seek to distance yourself from the cause of the
stress.

TREMORS (MODERATE)
You shake violently, making it difficult to hold things
or stay still.

BLACKOUT (MAJOR)
You operate on auto-pilot in a temporary fugue state.
Later, you will be incapable of recalling what hap-
pened during this period. (Synthetic shells and info-
morphs may call up memory records from storage.)

FRENZY (MAJOR)
You have a major freak out over the source of the
stress and attack it.

HALLUCINATIONS (MAJOR)
You see, hear, or otherwise sense things that aren't
really there.
HYSTERIA (MAJOR)
You lose control, panicking over the source of the
stress. This typically results in an emotional outburst
of crying, laughing, or irrational fear.

IRRATIONALITY (MAJOR)
You are so jarred by the stress that your capacity for
logical judgment breaks down. You are angered by
imaginary offenses, hold unreasonable expectations, or
otherwise accept things with unconvincing evidence.

PARALYSIS (MAJOR)
You are so shocked by the trauma that you are effec-
tively frozen, incapable of making decisions or taking
action.

PSYCHOSOMATIC CRIPPLING (MAJOR)
The trauma overwhelms you, impairing some part of
your physical functioning. You suffer from an inexpli-
cable blindness, deafness, or phantom pain, or are sud-
denly incapable of using a limb or other extremity.

DISORDERS
Disorders reflect more permanent madness. In this
case, “permanent” does not necessarily mean forever,
but the condition is ongoing until the character has re-
ceived lengthy and effective psychiatric help. Disorders
are inflicted whenever a character has accumulated 4
traumas. The gamemaster and player should choose a
disorder that fits the situation and character.
   Disorders are not always “active”—they may
remain dormant until triggered by certain conditions.
While it is certainly possible to act under a disorder,
it represents a severe impairment to a person's ability
to maintain normal relationships and do a job suc-
cessfully. Disorders should not be glamorized as cute
role-playing quirks. They represent the best attempts
of a damaged psyche to deal with a world that has
failed it in some way. Additionally, people in many
habitats, particularly those in the inner system, still
regard disorders as a mark of social stigma and may
react negatively towards impaired characters.
   Characters that acquire disorders over the course
of their adventures may get rid of them in one of two
ways, either through in-game attempts to treat them
(p. 214) or by buying them off as they would a nega-
tive trait (p. 153).

ADDICTION
Addiction as a disorder can refer to any sort of addic-
tive behavior focused toward a particular behavior or
substance, to the point where the user is unable to func-
tion without the addiction but is also severely impaired
due to the effects of the addiction. It is marked by a
desire on the part of the subject to seek help or reduce
the use of the addicting substance/act, but also by the
subject spending large amounts of time in pursuit of
