their addiction to the exclusion of other activities. This
is a step up from Addiction negative trait listed on p.
148—this is much more of a crippling behavior that
compensates for spending time away from the addic-
tion. Addictions are typically related to the trauma
that caused the disorder (VR or drug addictions are
encouraged).
   Suggested Game Effects: The addict functions in
only two states: under the influence of their addic-
tion or in withdrawal. Additionally, they spend large
amounts of time away from their other responsibili-
ties in pursuit of their addiction.

ATAVISM
Atavism is a disorder that mainly affects uplifts. It
results in them regressing to an earlier un- or partial-
ly-uplifted state. They may exhibit behaviors more
closely in line with their more animalistic forbears, or
they may lose some of their uplift benefits such as the
ability for abstract reasoning or speech.
   Suggested Game Effects: The player and gamemas-
ter should discuss how much of the uplift's nature is
lost and adjust game penalties accordingly. It is im-
portant to note that other uplifts view atavistic uplifts
with something akin to horror and will usually have
nothing to do with them.

ATTENTION DEFICIT HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER (ADHD)
This disorder manifests as a marked inability to focus
on any one task for an extended period of time, and
also an inability to notice details in most situations.
Sufferers may find themselves starting multiple tasks,
beginning a new one after only a cursory attempt at
the prior task. ADHD suffers may also have a manic
edge that manifests as confidence in their ability to get
a given job done, even though they will quickly lose
all interest in it.
   Suggested Game Effects: Perception and related
skill penalties. Increased difficulty modifiers to task
actions, particularly as the action drags on.

AUTOPHAGY
This is a disorder that usually only occurs among up-
lifted octopi. It is a form of anxiety disorder character-
ized by self-cannibalism of the limbs. Subjects afflicted
with autophagy will, under stress, begin to consume
their limbs, if at all possible, causing themselves po-
tentially serious harm.
   Suggested Game Effects: Anytime an uplifted octopi
with this disorder is placed in a stressful situation they
must make a successful WIL x 3 Test or begin to con-
sume one of their limbs.

BIPOLAR DISORDER
Bipolar disorder is also called manic depression. It is
similar to depression except for the fact that the peri-
ods of depression are interrupted by brief (a matter of
days at most) periods of mania where the subject feels
inexplicably “up” about everything with heightened
energy and a general disregard for consequences. The
depressive stages are similar in all ways to depression.
The manic stages are dangerous since the subject
will take risks, spend wildly, and generally engage in
behavior without much in the way of forethought or
potential long term consequences.
  Suggested Game Effects: Similar to depression, but
when manic the character must make a WIL x 3 Test
to not do some action that may be potentially risky.
They will also try to convince others to go along with
the idea.

BODY DYSMORPHIA
Subjects afflicted with this disorder believe that they
are so unspeakably hideous that they are unable to
interact with others or function normally for fear of
ridicule and humiliation at their appearance. They
tend to be very secretive and reluctant to seek help
because they are afraid others will think them vain—
or they may feel too embarrassed to do so. Ironi-
cally, BDD is often misunderstood as a vanity-driven
obsession, whereas it is quite the opposite; people
with BDD believe themselves to be irrevocably ugly
or defective. A similar disorder, gender identity dis-
order, where the patient is upset with their entire
sexual biology, often precipitates BDD-like feelings.
Gender identity disorder is directed specifically at
external sexually dimorphic features, which are in
constant conflict with the patient's internal psychi-
atric gender.
   Suggested Game Effects: Because of the nature of
Eclipse Phase and the ability to swap out and modify
a body, this is a fairly common disorder. It is suggested
that players with this suffer increased or prolonged
resleeving penalties since they are unable to fully
adjust to the reality of their new morph.

BORDERLINE PERSONALITY DISORDER
This disorder is marked by a general inability to fully
experience one's self any longer. Emotional states are
variable and often marked by extremes and acting
out. Simply put, the subject feels like they are losing
their sense of self and seeks constant reassurance
from others around them, yet is not fully able to act
in an appropriate way. They may also engage in im-
pulsive behaviors in an attempt to experience some
sort of feeling. In extreme cases, there may be suicidal
thoughts or attempts.
   Suggested Game Effects: The character needs to
be around others and will not be left alone, however
they also are not quite able to relate to others in a
normal way and may also take risks or make impul-
sive decisions.

DEPRESSION
Clinical depression is characterized by intense feelings
of hopelessness and worthlessness. Subjects usually
report feeling as though nothing they do matters and
no one would care anyway, so they are disinclined to
