attempt much in the way of anything. The character is
depressed and finds it difficult to be motivated to do
much of anything. Even simple acts such as eating and
bathing can seem to be monumental tasks.
  Suggested Game Effect: Depressives often lack the
will to take any sort of action, often to the point of re-
quiring a WIL x 3 Test to engage in sustained activity.

FUGUE
The character enters into a fugue state where they
display little attention to external stimuli. They will
still function physiologically but refrain from speak-
ing and stare off into the distance, unable to focus on
events around them. Unlike catatonia, a person in a
fugue state will walk around if lead about by a helper,
but is otherwise unresponsive. The fugue state is usu-
ally a persistent state, but it can be an occasional state
that is triggered by some sort of external stimuli simi-
lar to the original trauma that triggered the disorder.
   Suggested Game Effects: Characters in a fugue state
are totally non-responsive to most stimuli around
them. They will not even defend themselves if at-
tacked and will usually attempt to curl into a fetal
position if physically assaulted.

GENERAL ANXIETY DISORDER (GAD)
GAD results in severe feelings of anxiety about nearly
everything the character comes into contact with.
Even simple tasks represent the potential for failure
on a catastrophic scale and should be avoided or mini-
mized. Additionally, negative outcomes for any action
are always assumed to be the only possible outcomes.
  Suggested Game Effects: A character with GAD will
be almost entirely useless unless convinced otherwise,
and then only for a short period of time. Another
character can attempt to use a relevant social skill to
coax the GAD character into doing what is required
of them. If the character with the disorder fails at the
task, however, all future attempts to coax them will
suffer a cumulative –10 penalty.

HYPOCHONDRIA
Hypochondriacs suffer from a delusion that they are
sick in ways that they are not. They will create dis-
orders that they believe they suffer from, usually to
get the attention of others. Often hypochondriacs will
inflict harm on themselves or even ingest substances
that will aid in producing symptoms similar to the
disorder they believe they have. These attempts to
simulate symptoms can and will cause actual harm to
hypochondriacs.
   Possible Game Effects: A subject that is hypochon-
driac will often behave as though they are under the
effects of some other disorder or physical malady.
This can be consistent over time or can be different
and ever changing. They will react with hostility to
claims that they are faking or not actually ill.
IMPULSE CONTROL DISORDER
Subjects have a certain act or belief that they must
engage in a certain activity that comes into their
mind. This can be kleptomania, pyromania, sexual
exhibitionism, etc. They feel a sense of building
anxiety whenever they are prevented from engaging
in this behavior for an extended period (usually sev-
eral times a day to weekly, depending on the impulse)
and will often attempt to engage in this behavior at
inconvenient or inappropriate times. This is differ-
ent from OCD in the sense that OCD is usually a
single contained behavior that must be engaged in to
reduce anxiety. Impulse control disorder is a variety
of behaviors and can be virtually any sort of highly
inappropriate action.
   Suggested Game Effects: Similar to OCD, if the
player doesn't engage in the behavior they will grow
increasingly disturbed and suffer penalties to all ac-
tions until they are able to engage in the compulsion
that alleviates their anxiety.

INSOMNIA
Insomniacs find themselves unable to sleep, or unable
to sleep for an extended period of time. This is most
often due to anxiety about their lives or as a result
of depression and the accompanying negative thought
patterns. This is not the sort of sleeplessness that is
brought about as a result of normal stress but rather
a near total inability to find rest in sleep when it is
desired. Insomniacs may find themselves nodding off
at inopportune times, but never for long, and never
enough to gain any restful sleep. As a result, they
are frequently lethargic and inattentive as their lack
of sleep robs them of their edge and eventually any
semblance of alertness. Additionally, insomniacs are
frequently irritable due to being on edge and unable
to rest.
   Suggested Game Effects: Due to the lack of mean-
ingful sleep, insomniacs should suffer from blanket
penalties to perception related tasks or anything re-
quiring concentration or prolonged fine motor abilities.

MEGALOMANIA
A megalomaniac believes themselves to be the single
most important person in the universe. Nothing is
more important than the megalomaniac and every-
thing around them must be done according to their
whim. Failure to comply with the dictates of a mega-
lomaniac can often result in rages or actual physical
assaults by the subject.
  Suggested Game Effects: A character that has
megalomania will demand attention and has diffi-
culty in nearly any social situation. Additionally, they
may be provoked to violence if they think they are
being slighted.
