MULTIPLE PERSONALITY DISORDER
This is the development of a separate, distinct per-
sonality from the original or control personality.
The personalities may or may not be aware of each
other and “conscious” during the actions of the other
personality. Usually there is some sort of trigger that
results in the emergence of the non-control personality.
Most subjects have only a single extra personality, but
it is not unheard of to have several personalities. It
is important to note that these are distinct individual
personalities and not just crude caricatures of the Dr.
Jekyll/Mr. Hyde sort. Each personality sees itself as
a distinct person with their own wants, needs, and
motivations. Additionally, they are usually unaware
of the experiences of the others, though there is some
basic information sharing (such as language and core
skill sets).
   Suggested Game Effects: When the player is under
the effects of another personality, they should be
treated as an NPC. In some rare cases the player and
the gamemaster can work out the second personality
and allow the player to roleplay this. This does not
however constitute an entire new character that can
be “turned on” at will.

OBSESSIVE COMPULSIVE DISORDER (OCD)
Subjects with OCD are marked by intrusive or in-
appropriate thoughts or impulses that cause acute
anxiety if a particular obsession or compulsion is not
engaged in to alleviate them. These obsessions and
compulsions can be nearly any sort of behavior that
must be immediately engaged in to keep the rising
anxiety at bay. Players and gamemasters are encour-
aged to come up with a behavior that is suitable.
Examples of common behaviors include repetitive
tics (touching every finger of each hand to another
part of the body, tapping the right foot twenty times),
pathological behaviors such as gambling or eating,
or a mental ritual that must be completed (reciting a
book passage).
   Suggested Game Effects: If the player doesn't
engage in the behavior they will grow increasingly
disturbed and suffer penalties to all actions until they
are able to engage in the compulsion that alleviates
their anxiety.

POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (PTSD)
PTSD occurs as a result of being exposed to either
a single incident or a series of incidents where the
sufferer had their own life, or saw the lives of others,
threatened with death. These incidents are often
marked by an inability on the part of the victim, either
real or perceived, to do anything to alter the outcomes.
As a result, they develop an acute anxiety and fixation
on these incidents to the point where they lose sleep,
become irritated or easily angered, or are depressed
over feelings that they lack control in their own lives.
   Suggested Game Effects: Penalties to task actions,
also treat situations similar to the initial episodes that
caused the disorder as a phobia.
SCHIZOPHRENIA
While schizophrenia is generally acknowledged as a
genetic disorder that has an onset in early adulthood,
it also seems to develop in a number of egos that un-
dergo frequent morph changes. It has been theorized
that this is due to some sort of repetitive error in the
download process. Regardless, it remains a rare, yet
persistent danger of dying and being brought back.
Schizophrenia is a psychotic disorder where the sub-
ject loses their ability to discern reality from unreality.
This can involve delusions, hallucinations (often in
support of the delusions), and fragmented or disor-
ganized speech. The subject will not be aware of these
behaviors and will perceive themselves as functioning
normally, often to the point of becoming paranoid that
others are somehow involved in a grand deception.
   Suggested Game Effects: Schizophrenia represents
a total break from reality. A character that is schizo-
phrenic may see and hear things and act on those
delusions and hallucinations while seeing attempts
by their friends to stop or explain to them as part of
a wider conspiracy. Adding to this is the difficulty of
communicating coherently. Players that have become
schizophrenic are only marginally functional and
only for short periods of time until they have the
disorder treated.

STRESSFUL SITUATIONS
The universe of Eclipse Phase is ripe with experiences
that might rattle a character's sanity. Some of these are
as mundane and human as extreme violence, extended
isolation, or helplessness. Others are less common, but
even more terrifying: encountering alien species, infec-
tion by the Exsurgent virus, or being sleeved inside a
non-human morph.

WILLPOWER STRESS TESTS
Whenever a character encounters a situation that
might impact their ego's psyche, the gamemaster may
call for a (Willpower x 3) Test. This test determines if
the character is able to cope with the unnerving situa-
tion or if the experience scars their mental landscape.
If they succeed, the character is shaken but otherwise
unaffected. If they fail, they suffer stress damage (and
possibly trauma) as appropriate to the situation. A
list of stress-inducing scenarios and suggested SVs are
listed on the Stressful Experiences table, p. 215. The
gamemaster should use these as a guideline, modifying
them as appropriate to the situation at hand.
   Note that some incidents may be so horrific that a
modifier is applied to the character's (Willpower x 3)
Test.

HARDENING
The more you are exposed to horrible or terrifying
things, the less scary they become. After repeated ex-
posure, you become hardened to such things, able to
shake them off without effect.
