MIND HACKS■MIND HACKS■MIND HAC



 HACKS
  Though neuroscience has ascended to impressive
  pinnacles, allowing minds to be thoroughly scanned,
  mapped, and emulated as software, the transhuman
  brain remains a place that is complicated, not fully
  understood, and thoroughly messy. Despite a preva-
  lence of neural modifications, meddling with the seat
  of consciousness remains a tricky and hazardous
  procedure. Nevertheless, psychosurgery—editing the
  mind as software—remains common and widespread,
  sometimes with unexpected results.
     Likewise, even as the knowledge of neuroscientists
  grows on an exponential basis, some are discovering
  that minds are far more mysterious than they had ever
  imagined. During the Fall, scattered reports of “anom-
  alous activity” by individuals infected by one of the
  numerous circulating nanoplagues were discounted
  as fear and paranoia, but subsequent investigations
  by black budget labs has proven otherwise. Now, top-
  level confidential networks whisper that this infection
  inflicts intricate changes in the victim's neural network
  that imbue them with strange and inexplicable abili-
  ties. The exact mechanism and nature of these abilities
  remains unexplained and outside the grasp of modern
  transhuman science. Given the evidence of a new
  brainwave type and the paranormal nature of this
  phenomenon, it is loosely referred to as “psi.”



  PSI
  In Eclipse Phase, psi is considered a special cognitive
  condition resulting from infection by the mutant—and
  hopefully otherwise benign—Watts-Macleod strain
  of the Exsurgent virus (p. 367). This plague modifies
  the victim's mind, conferring special abilities. These
  abilities are inherent to the brain's architecture and
  are copied when the mind is uploaded, allowing the
  character to retain their psi abilities when changing
  from morph to morph.

  PREREQUISITES
  To wield psi, a character must acquire the Psi trait (p.
  147) during character creation. It is theoretically also
  possible to acquire the use of psi in game via infec-
  tion by the Watts-MacLeod strain; see The Exsurgent
  Virus, p. 362.
     Psi ability is considered an innate ability of the
  ego and not a biological or genetic predisposition of
  the morph. While psi researchers do not understand
  how it is possible to transfer this ability via uploads,
  backups, and farcasting, it has been speculated that
  all components of an async's ego are entangled on a
  quantum level, or that they possess the ability to en-
  tangle themselves or form a unique conformation or
  alignment as a whole even after they have been copied,
  up-, or downloaded. This speculated entanglement
■MIND HACKS■MIND HACKS■MIND H

                                                             8


 process is also thought to be the origin of the impair-
 ment that asyncs experience when adapting to a new
 morph (see below).

 MORPHS AND PSI
 Asyncs require a biological brain to draw on their
 abilities (the brains of uplifted animals count). An
 async whose ego is downloaded into an infomorph or
 fully computerized brain (synthmorphs) has no access
 to their abilities as long they remain in that morph.
   Asyncs inhabiting a pod morph may use psi, but
 their abilities are restricted as pod brains are only
 partly biological. Pod-morphed asyncs suffer a –30
 modifier on all tests involving the use of psi sleights
 and the impact from using sleights would be doubled.

 MORPH ACCLIMATIZATION
 Async minds undergo extra difficulty adjusting to new
 morphs. For 1 day after the character has resleeved,
 they will suffer the effects of a single derangement
 (p. 210). The gamemaster and player should choose a
 derangement appropriate to the character and story.
 Minor derangements are recommended, but at the
 gamemaster's discretion moderate or major derange-
 ments may be applied. No trauma is inflicted with
 this derangement.

 MORPH FEVER
 Asyncs find it irritating and traumatizing to endure life
 as an infomorph, pod, or synthmorph for long periods
 of time. This phenomenon, known as morph fever,
 might cause temporary derangements and trauma to
 the asyncs' ego, possibly even to the grade of perma-
 nent disorders. If stored or held captive as an active
 infomorph (i.e. not in virtual stasis), the async might
 go insane if not psychologically aided by some sort of
 anodyne program or supporting person during storage.
   In game terms, asyncs take 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up)
 points of mental stress damage per month they stay
 in a pod, synthmorph or infomorph form without
 psychological assistance by a psychiatrist, software,
 or muse.

 PSI DRAWBACKS
 There are several drawbacks to psi ability:

- The variant Exsurgent strain that endows psi ability
  rewires the character's brain. An unfortunate side
  effect to this change is that asyncs acquire a vulner-
  ability to mental stress. Reduce the async's Trauma
  Threshold by 1.
- The mental instability that accompanies psi infec-
  tion also tends to unhinge the character's mind.
  Asyncs acquires one Mental Disorder negative trait
  (p. 150) for each level they have of the Psi trait
