  without receiving any bonus CP. The gamemaster
  and player should agree on a disorder appropriate
  to the character. This disorder may be treated over
  time, according to normal rules (see Mental Healing
  and Psychotherapy, p. 215).
- Characters with the Psi trait are also vulnerable to
  infection by other strains of the Exsurgent virus.
  The character suffers a –20 modifier when resisting
  Exsurgent infection (p. 362).
- Critical failures when using psi tend to stress the
  async's mind. Each time a critical failure is rolled
  when making a sleight-related test, the async suffers
  a temporary brain seizure. They suffer a –30 modi-
  fier and are incapable of acting until the end of the
  next Action Turn. They must also succeed in a WIL
  + COG Test or fall down.

PSI SKILLS AND SLEIGHTS
Transhuman psi users can manipulate their egos and
otherwise create effects that can often be neither
matched nor mimicked by technological means. To use
these abilities, they train their mental processes and
practice cognitive algorithms called sleights, which
they can subconsciously recall and use as necessary.
Sleights fall into two categories: psi-chi (cognitive
enhancements, p. 223) and psi-gamma (brainwave
reading and manipulation, p. 225). Psi-chi sleights are
available to anyone with the Psi trait (p. 147), but psi-
gamma sleights are only available to characters with
the Psi trait at Level 2. In order to use these sleights,
the async must be skilled in the Control (p. 178), Psi
Assault (p. 183), and/or Sense skills (p. 184), as ap-
propriate to each sleight.

ROLEPLAYING ASYNCS
Any player who chooses to play an async should keep
the origin of their abilities in mind: Watts-MacLeod
strain infection. The character may not be aware of
this source, but they undoubtedly know that they un-
derwent some sort of transformation and have talents
that no one else does. If unaware of the infection, they
have likely learned to keep their abilities secret lest
they be ridiculed, attacked, or whisked away to some
secret testing program. Learning the truth about their
nature could even be the starting point of a campaign
and/or their introduction to Firewall. If they know the
truth, however, the character must live with the fact
that they are the victim of a nanoplague likely spread
by the TITANs that may or may not lead to complica-
tions, side effects, or other unexpected revelations in
their future.
   Gamemasters and players should make an effort
to explore the nature of this infection and how the
character perceives it. As noted previously, asyncs are
often profoundly-changed people. The invasive and
alien aspect of their abilities should not be lost on
them. For example, an async might conceive of their
psi talents as a sort of parasitic entity, living off their
sleights, or they might feel that using these powers
puts them in touch with some sort of fundamental
substrate of the universe that is weird and terrifying.
Alternately, they could feel as if their personality was
melded with something different, something that
doesn't belong. Each async is likely to view their situ-
ation differently, and none of them pleasantly.

USING PSI
Using psi—i.e., drawing on a certain sleight to pro-
cure some kind of effect—does not always require a
test. Each sleight description details how the power
is used.

ACTIVE PSI
Active psi sleights must be “activated” to be used.
These sleights usually require a skill test. Sleights that
target other sentient beings or life forms are always
Opposed Tests, while others are handled as Success
Tests. The level of concentration required to use these
sleights varies, and so may call for a Quick, Complex,
or Task Action. Active sleights also cause strain (p.
223) to the async. Most psi-gamma sleights fall into
this category.

PASSIVE PSI
Passive psi sleights encompasses abilities that are con-
sidered automatically active and subconscious. They
rarely require an action to be activated and require
no effort or strain by the psi user. Passive sleights typi-
cally add bonuses to various activities or allow access
to certain abilities rather than calling for some kind of
skill test. Most psi-chi sleights fall into this category.

PSI RANGE
Sleights have a Range of either Self, Touch, or Close.
   Self: These sleights only affect the async.
  Touch: Sleights with a Touch range may be used
against other biological life, but the async must have
physical contact with the target. If the target avoids
being touched, this requires a successful melee attack,
applying the touch-only +20 modifier. This attack
does not cause damage, and is considered part of the
same action as the psi use.
   Close: Close sleights involve interaction with other
biological life from a short distance. The optimal dis-
tance is within 5 meters. For each meter beyond that,
apply a –10 modifier to the test.
   Psi vs. Psi: Due to the nature of psi, sleights are
more effective against other psi users. Sleights with
a range of Touch may be used from a Close range
against another async. Likewise, a sleight with a Close
range may be used at twice the normal distance (10
meters) when wielded on another async.

TARGETING
Synthmorphs, bots, and vehicles may not be targeted
by psi sleights, as they lack biological brains. Pods—
with brains that are half biological and half com-
puter—are less susceptible and receive a +30 modifier
