when defending against psi use. Note that infomorphs
may never be targeted by psi sleights as psi is not ef-
fective within the mesh or simulspace.
   Multiple Targets: An async may target more than
one character with a sleight with the same action, as
long as each of them can be targeted via the rules
above. The psi character only rolls once, with each of
the defending characters making their Opposed Tests
against that roll. The psi character suffers strain (p.
223) for each target, however, meaning that using psi
on multiple targets can be extremely dangerous.
   Animals and Less Complex Life Forms: Psi works
against any living creature with a brain and/or
nervous system. Against partially-sentient and par-
tially-uplifted animals, it suffers a –20 modifier and
increases strain by +1. Against non-sentient animals,
it suffers a –30 modifier and increases strain by +3. It
has no effect on or against less complex life forms like
plants, algae, bacteria, etc.
   Factors and Aliens: At the gamemaster's discretion,
psi sleights may not work on alien creatures at all, de-
pending on their physiology and neurology. If it does
work, it is likely to suffer at least a –20 modifier and
+1 strain.

OPPOSED TESTS
Psi that is used against another character is resisted
with an Opposed Test. Defending characters resist with
WIL x 2. Willing characters may choose not to resist.
Unconscious or sleeping characters cannot resist.
   If the psi-wielding character succeeds and the de-
fender fails, the sleight affects the target. If the psi user
fails, the defender is unscathed. If both parties suc-
ceed in their tests, compare their dice rolls. If the psi
user's roll is higher, the sleight bypasses the defender's
mental block and affects the target; otherwise, the
sleight fails to affect the defender's ego.

TARGET AWARENESS
The target of a psi sleight is aware they are being
targeted any time they succeed on their half of the
Opposed Test (regardless on whether the async
rolls higher or not). Note that awareness does not
necessarily mean that the target understands that psi
abilities are being used on them, especially as most
people in Eclipse Phase are unaware of psi's existence.
Instead, the target is simply likely to understand that
some outside influence is at work, or that something
strange is happening. They may suspect that they
have been drugged or are under the influence of some
strange technology.
  Targets who fail their roll remain unaware.

PSI FULL DEFENSE
Like full defense in physical combat (p. 198), a de-
fender may spend a Complex Action to rally and con-
centrate their mental defenses, gaining a +30 modifier
to their defense test against psi use until their next
Action Phase.
