CRITICALS
If the defender rolls a critical success, the character
attempting to wield psi is temporarily locked out of
the target's mind. The psi user may not target that
character with sleights until an appropriate “reset”
period has passed, determined by the gamemaster.
   If the async rolls a critical failure, they suffer tempo-
rary incapacitation as their mind dysfunctions in some
harsh and distressing ways (see Psi Drawbacks, p. 221).
   If a psi user rolls a critical success against a de-
fender, or the defender rolls a critical failure, double
the potency of the sleight's effect. In the case of psi at-
tacks, the DV can be doubled or mental armor can be
bypassed. Alternately, when using Psi Assault (p. 183),
the targeted character may be in danger of infection
by the Watts-Macleod strain (p. 362).

MENTAL ARMOR
The Psi Shield sleight (p. 228) provides mental armor,
a form of neural hardening against psi-based attacks.
Like physical armor, this mental armor reduces the
amount of damage inflicted by a psi assault.

DURATION
Psi sleights have one of four durations: constant, in-
stant, temporary, or sustained.
   Constant: Constant sleights are always “on.”
   Instant: Instant sleights take effect only in the
Action Phase in which they are used.
   Temporary: Temporary sleights last for a limited
duration with no extra effort from the async. The
temporary duration is determined by the async's WIL
÷ 5 (round up) and is measured in either Action Turns
or minutes, as noted. Strain for the sleight is applied
immediately when used, not at the end of the duration.
   Sustained: Sustained sleights require active effort
to maintain for as long as the async wants to keep
it active. Sustaining a sleight requires concentration,
and so the async suffers a –10 modifier to all other
skill tests while the sleight is sustained. The async
must also stay within the range appropriate to the
sleight, otherwise the sleight immediately ends. More
than one sleight may be sustained at a time, with a
cumulative modifier. Strain for the sleight is applied
immediately when used, not at the end of the dura-
tion. At the gamemaster's discretion, sleights that are
sustained for long periods may incur additional strain.

STRAIN
The use of psi is physically (and sometimes psycho-
logically) draining to a psi user. This phenomenon is
known as strain, and manifests as fatigue, exhaustion,
pain, neural overload, cardiovascular stress, and
adynamia (loss of vigor). Though strain has only
rarely been known to actually kill an async, the use
of too much active psi can be life-threatening in some
circumstances.
   In game terms, every active sleight has a Strain
Value of 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) DV. Every active sleight
lists a Strain Value Modifier that modifies this amount.
For example, a sleights with a Strain Value Modifier
of –1 inflicts (1d10 ÷ 2) –1 DV.
   If the damage points suffered from strain exceed
the character's Wound Threshold, they may inflict a
wound just like other damage (see Wounds, p. 207).


           Matric is investigating a disappearance, so he
           decides to use his Qualia sleight to boost his
           Intuition while hunting for clues. That psi-chi
           sleight takes only a Quick Action to initiate and
           requires no test. Matric's WIL is 25, so the dura-
           tion of this temporary sleight is 5 Action Turns (25
           ÷ 5 = 5). The sleight's Strain modifier is –1, so
           he is facing (1d10 ÷ 2) –1 DV. He rolls a 1, so he
           takes no strain at all!
              Later on, Matric finds himself in a life-or-death
           struggle with a kidnapper. Lucky for Matric,
           they're in a melee, so he's close enough to try
 EXAMPLE




           and touch his opponent. On his Action Phase, he
           makes an Unarmed Combat Test with a +20 mod-
           ifier (for a touch-only attack) and succeeds. This
           allows him to try and use his Psychic Stab sleight.
           He rolls his Psi Assault of 57 against the target's
           WIL x 2 (32). His target is in a worker pod morph,
           however, which is less susceptible to psi, so he
           receives a +30 modifier (32 + 30 = 62). Matric
           rolls a 32 and the worker pod a 64—Matric wins!
           For damage, he rolls 1d10 + (WIL ÷ 10). His WIL
           is 25, so that's 1d10 + 3. He rolls a score a 7 and
           inflicts 10 (7 + 3) points of damage. The worker
           pod screams in pain, suffering a wound from the
           psychic assault.


PSI-CHI SLEIGHTS
Psi-chi sleights are async abilities that speed up cogni-
tive informatics (internal information processing) and
enhance the user's perception and cognition.

AMBIENCE SENSE
       PSI TYPE:    Passive        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self        DURATION: Constant
This sleight provides the async with an instinctive
sense about an area and any potential threats nearby.
The async receives a +10 modifier to all Investigation,
Perception, Scrounging, and Surprise Tests.

COGNITIVE BOOST
       PSI TYPE:    Active         ACTION:    Quick
       RANGE:       Self           DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
The async can temporarily elevate their cognitive
performance. In game terms, Cognition is raised by 5
for the chosen duration. This boost to Cognition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.
