DOWNTIME
  PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Task (min. 4 hours)
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION:   Sustained
  STRAIN MOD: 0
This sleight provides the async with the ability
to send the mind into a fugue-state regenerative
downtime, during which the character's psyche is
repaired. The async must enter the downtime for
at least 4 hours; every 4 hours of downtime heals
1 point of stress damage. Traumas, derangements,
and disorders are unaffected by this sleight. For
all sensory purposes, the async is catatonic during
downtime, completely oblivious to the outside
world. Only severe disturbances or physical shock
(such as being wounded or hit by a shock weapon)
will bring the async out of it.

EMOTION CONTROL
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Constant
Emotion Control gives the async tight control
over their emotional states. Unwanted emotions
can be blocked out and others embraced. This has
the benefit of protecting the async from emotional
manipulation, such as the Drive Emotion sleight or
Intimidation skill tests. The async receives a +30
modifier when defending against such tests.

ENHANCED CREATIVITY
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
An async with Enhanced Creativity is more imagi-
native and more inclined to think outside the box.
Apply a +20 modifier to any tests where creativ-
ity plays a major role. This level of ingenuity can
sometimes seem strange and different, manifesting
in odd or creepy ways, especially with artwork.

FILTER
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:       Self         DURATION: Constant
Filter allows the async to filter out out distractions
and eliminate negative situational modifiers from
distraction, up to the gamemaster's discretion.

GROK
  PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION:   Instant
  STRAIN MOD: –1
By using the Grok sleight, the async is able to
intuitively understand how any unfamiliar object,
vehicle, or device is used simply by looking at and
handling it. If the character succeeds in a COG x 2
Test, they achieve a basic ability to use the object,
vehicle, or device, no matter how alien or bizarre.
This sleight does not provide any understanding of
the principles or technologies involved—the psi user
simply grasps how to make it work. If a test is called
for, the psi user receives a +20 modifier to use the
device (this bonus only applies to unfamiliar devices,
and/or tests the character is defaulting on—it does not
apply to devices the character is familiar with).

HIGH PAIN THRESHOLD
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
   RANGE:       Self        DURATION: Constant
This sleight allows the async to block out, ignore, or
otherwise isolate pain. The async reduces negative
modifiers from wounds by 10.

HYPERTHYMESIA
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:      Self         DURATION: Constant
Hyperthymesia grants the async a superior auto-
biographical memory, allowing them to remember the
most trivial of events. A hyperthymestic async can be
asked a random date and recall the day of the week
it was, the events that occurred that day, what the
weather was like, and many seemingly trivial details
that most people would not be able to recall.

INSTINCT
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:      Self        DURATION: Constant
Instinct bolsters the async's subconscious ability to
gauge a situation and make a snap judgment that
is just as accurate as a careful, considered decision.
For Task Actions that involve analysis or planning
alone (typically Mental skill actions), the async may
reduce the timeframe by 90% without suffering a
modifier. For Task Actions that involve partial analy-
sis/planning, they may reduce the timeframe by 30%
without penalty.

MULTITASKING
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
   RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
The async can handle vast amounts of information
without overload and can perform more than one
mental task at once. The character receives an extra
Complex Action each Action Phase that may only be
used for mental or mesh actions.

PATTERN RECOGNITION
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
The character is adept at spotting patterns and corre-
lating the non-random elements of a jumble—related
items jump out at them. This is useful for translating
languages, breaking codes, or find clues hidden among
massive amounts of data. The character must have
