a sufficiently large sample enough time to study, as
determined by the gamemaster. This might range from
a few hours of listening to a spoken transhuman lan-
guage to a few days of investigating inscriptions left
by long-dead aliens to a week or more of researching
a lengthy cipher. Languages may be comprehended by
reading or listening to them being spoken. Apply a
+20 modifier to any appropriate Language, Investiga-
tion, Research, or cod-breaking Tests (note that this
does not apply to Infosec Tests made by software to
decrypt a code). The async may also use this ability to
more easily learn new languages, reducing the training
time by half.

PREDICTIVE BOOST
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
    RANGE:     Self        DURATION: Constant
The Bayesian probability machine features of the
async's brain are boosted by this sleight, enhancing
their ability to estimate and predict outcomes of
events around them as they unfold in real-time and
update those predictions as information changes.
In effect, the character has a more intuitive sense
for which outcomes are most likely. This grants the
character a +10 bonus on any skill tests that involve
predicting the outcome of events. It also bolsters
the async's decision-making in combat situations by
making the best course of action more clear, and so
provides a +10 bonus to both Initiative and Fray Tests.

QUALIA
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Quick
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
The async can temporarily increase their intuitive
grasp of things. In game terms, Intuition is raised by
5 for the chosen duration. This boost to Intuition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.

SAVANT CALCULATION
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
     RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Constant
The character possesses an incredible facility with
intuitive mathematics. They can do everything from
calculate the odds exactly when gambling to predict-
ing precisely where a leaf falling from a tree will land
by observing the landscape and local wind currents.
The character specializes in calculation involving the
activity of complex chaotic systems and so can calcu-
late answers that even the fastest computers could not,
including things like patterns of rubble distribution
from an explosion. However, this mathematic facility
is largely intuitive, so the character does not know the
equations they are solving, they merely know the solu-
tion to the problem.
   This sleight also provides a +30 modifier to any
skill tests involving math (which the character is cal-
culating, not a computer).
SENSORY BOOST
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Quick
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –2
An async uses this sleight to increase their natural or
augmented sensory perception (sight, audio, smell,
augmented) by enhanced cerebral processing, grant-
ing a +20 bonus modifier on sensory-based Perception
Tests.

SUPERIOR KINESICS
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
    RANGE:     Self          DURATION: Constant
The async acquires more insight into people's emo-
tive signals, gestures, facial expressions, and body
language when it comes time to predict the person's
emotional state, intent, or reactions. Apply a +10
modifier to Kinesics Skill Tests.

TIME SENSE
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
An async with this ability can slow down his per-
ception of time, making everything appear to move
in slow motion or at reduced speed. In game terms,
this sleight grants the async a Speed of +1. This extra
Action Phase, however, can only be spent on mental
and mesh actions.

UNCONSCIOUS LEAD
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: +0
This sleight allows the async to override their con-
sciousness and let their unconscious mind take point.
While in this state, the async's conscious mind is only
dimly aware of what is transgressing, and any memo-
ries of this period will be hazy at best. The advantage
is that the unconscious mind acts more quickly, and
so the async's Speed is boosted by +1. The character
remains aware and active, but is incapable of com-
plex communication or other mental actions and is
motivated by instinct and primitive urges more than
conscious thought. Though it is recommended that
the player retain control of their character while using
Unconscious Lead, the gamemaster should feel free to
direct the character's actions as they see fit.
