PSI-GAMMA SLEIGHTS
  Psi-gamma sleights deal with contacting (reading
and communicating) and influencing the function of
biological minds (egos within a biomorph, but also
including animal life). Psi-gamma is only available to
characters with Level 2 of the Psi trait.
  Most psi-gamma use is handled as an Opposed Test
between the async and the target (p. 222).

ALIENATION
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
    STRAIN MOD: +0             SKILL:    Psi Assault
Alienation is an offensive sleight that create a sense of
disconnection between an ego and its morph—similar
to that experienced when resleeved into a new body.
The ego finds their body cumbersome, strange, and
alien, almost like they are a prisoner within it. If the
async beats the target in an Opposed Test, treat the
test as a failed Integration Test (p. 272) for the target.
This effect lasts for the sleight's duration.

CHARISMA
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Quick
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Minutes)
    STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:   Control
The async uses this sleight to influence the target's
mind on a subconscious level, so that the target per-
ceives them to be charming, magnetic, and persuasive.
If the async beats the target in an Opposed Test, they
gain a +30 modifier on all subsequent Social Skill
Tests for the chosen duration.

CLOUD MEMORY
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Minutes)
    STRAIN MOD: –1             SKILL:   Control
Cloud Memory allows the async to temporarily dis-
rupt the target's ability to form long-term memories. If
the async wins the Opposed Test, the target's memory-
saving ability is negated for the duration. The target
will retain short-term memories during this time, but
will soon forget anything that occurred while this
sleight was in effect.

DEEP SCAN
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: +1            SKILL:    Sense
Deep Scan is a more intrusive version of Thought
Browse (p. 228), made to extract information from the
targeted individual. If the Opposed Test succeeds, the
async telepathically invades the target's mind and can
probe it for information. For every 10 full points of MoS
the async achieves on their test, they retrieve one piece
of information. Each item takes one full Action Turn to
retrieve, during which the sleight must be sustained. The
target is aware of this mental probing, though they will
not know what information the async acquired.

DRIVE EMOTION
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Touch       DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
    STRAIN MOD: –1            SKILL:   Control
This sleight allows the async to stimulate cortical areas
of the target's brain related to emotion. This allows
the async to induce, amplify, or tone down specific
emotions, thereby manipulating the target. If the async
beats the target in an Opposed Test, they will act in ac-
cordance with the emotion for the duration and under
certain circumstances may suffer from certain penalties
(up to +/–30), as determined by the gamemaster. For
example, an async might receive a +30 Intimidation
Test modifier against a target imbued with fear.

EGO SENSE
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Close       DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
     STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:   Sense
Ego Sense can be used to detect the presence and
location of other sentient and biological life forms
(i.e., egos) within the async's range. To detect these
life forms, the async makes a single Sense Test, op-
posed by each life form within range. The async may
suffer a modifier for detecting small animals and
insects, similar to the modifier applied for target-
ing them in ranged combat (see p. 193); likewise, a
modifier for detecting larger life forms may also be
applied. If successful, the async has detected that the
life form is nearby. Every 10 full points of MoS will
ascertain another piece of information regarding the
detected life: direction from async, approximate size,
type of creature, distance from async, etc. The async
will know if the target moves, if they do so during the
sleight's duration.

EMPATHIC SCAN
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Close       DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: –2             SKILL:    Sense
Empathic Scan enables the async to sense the target's
base emotions. If the async wins the Opposed Test,
they intuitively feel the target's emotional current state
for as long as the sleight is sustained. At the gamemas-
ter's discretion, this knowledge may provide a modifier
(up to +30) for certain Social skill tests.

IMPLANT MEMORY
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Touch       DURATION:   Instant
   STRAIN MOD:   +0          SKILL:      Control
