An async using this sleight can implant a memory
of up to an hour's length inside the target's mind.
This memory very obviously does not belong to the
target—there is no way they will confuse it for one
of their own. The intent is not to fake memories, but
to place one of the async's memories in the target's
mind so that the target can access it just like any other
memory. This can be useful for “archiving” important
data with an ally, providing a literal alternate perspec-
tive, or simply making a “data dump” for the target
to peruse. Implant Memory requires an Opposed Test
against unwilling participants. At the gamemaster's
discretion, particularly traumatic memories might
inflict mental stress on the recipient (p. 215).

IMPLANT SKILL
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch        DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

     STRAIN MOD: +0          SKILL:   Control
Similar to Implant Memory, this sleight allows the
async to impart some of their expertise and implant it
into the target's mind. For the duration of the sleight,
the target benefits when using that skill. If the async's
skill is between 31 and 60, the target receives a +10
bonus. If the async's skill is 61+, the target receives
a +20 bonus. Implant Skill requires an Opposed Test
against unwilling participants. In some cases, the
target has been known to use the skill with the async's
flair and mannerisms.

MIMIC
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Quick
    RANGE:      Close        DURATION:   Instant
   STRAIN MOD: +0         SKILL:   Sense
In a setting where changing your body and face is
not unusual, people learn to recognize habits and
personality quirks more often. The async must use
this sleight on a target and succeed in a Success Test.
If successful, the async acquires an “imprint” of the
target's mind that they can take advantage of when
impersonating that ego. The async then receives a +30
bonus on Impersonation Tests when mimicking the
target's behavior and social cues.

MINDLINK
   PSI TYPE:     Active                 ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Touch                  DURATION:   Sustained
   STRAIN MOD:                SKILL:
                 +1/target after first  Control
Mindlink allows two-way mental communication
with a target. This may be used on more than one
target simultaneously, in which case the async can act
as a telepathic “server,” so that everyone mindlinked
with the async may also telepathically communicate
with each other (via the async, however, so they
overhear). Language is still a factor in mindlinked
communications, but this barrier may be overcome by
transmitting sounds, images, emotions, and other sen-
sations. Mindlink requires an Opposed Test against
unwilling participants.

OMNI AWARENESS
   PSI TYPE:     Active                 ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Close                  DURATION: Temp (Minutes)

    STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:    Sense
An async with Omni Awareness is hypersensitive to
other biological life that is observing them. During
this sleight's duration, the async makes a Sense Test
that is opposed by any life that has focused their at-
tention on them within the sleight's range; if success-
ful, the async knows they are being watched, but not
by whom or what. It does, however, apply a +30 Per-
ception bonus to spot the observer. This sleight does
not register partial attention or fleeting attention, or
simple perception of the async, it only notices targets
