 directly. Thought Browse may be sustained, allowing
 the async to continue scanning the target's thoughts
 over time. The async must beat the target in an Op-
 posed Test for each scanned item.



 PSYCHOSURGERY
 Given the reach of neuroscience in the time of
 Eclipse Phase, it is easy to think of the mind as
 programmable software, as something that can be
 reverse-engineered, re-coded, upgraded, and patched.
 To a large degree, this is true. Aided by nanotechnol-
 ogy, genetics, and cognitive science, neuroscientists
 have demolished numerous barriers to understand-
 ing the mind's structure and functions, and even
 made great leaps in unveiling the true nature of
 consciousness. Genetic tweaks, neuro-mods, and
 neural implants offer an assortment of options for
 improving the brain's capabilities. The transhuman
 mind has become a playground—and a battlefield.
 Nanovirii unleashed during the Fall infected mil-
 lions, altering their brains in permanent ways, with
 occasional outbreaks still occurring a decade later.
 Cognitive virii roam the mesh, plaguing infomorphs
 and AIs, reprogramming mind states. An “infectious
 idea” is now a literal term.
    In truth, mind editing is not an easy, safe, and
 error-proof process—it is difficult, dangerous, and
 often flawed. Neuroscience may be light years
 ahead of where it was a century ago, but there are
 many aspects of the brain and neural functions
 that continue to confound and elude even the
 brightest experts and AIs. Technologies like nano-
 neural mapping, uploading, digital mind emulation,
 and artifi cial intelligence are also comparatively
 in their infancy, being mere decades old. Though
 transhumanity has a handle on how to make these
 processes work, it does not always fully understand
 the underlying mechanisms.
    Any neurotech will tell you that mucking around
 in the mind's muddy depths is a messy business.
 Brains are organic devices, molded by millions of
 years of unplanned evolutionary development. Each
 is grown haphazardly, loaded with evolutionary



SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: “THE HUMAN COGNOME PR
                The Human Cognome Project was an                Fun
                academic research venture to reverse         and co
                engineer the human brain, paralleling        transhu
                in many ways the Human Genome                the fun
                Project and its success in deciphering       and wa
                the human genome. The HCP was a              the fir
                multidisciplinary undertaking, relevant      intellig
                to biology, neuroscience, psychology,        has als
                cognitive science, artificial intelligence,   ing tra
            THE HUMAN COGNOME PROJECT
                and philosophy of mind.                      databa
   leftovers, and randomly modified by an unlimited
   array of life events and environmental factors. Every
   mind features numerous mechanisms—cells, con-
   nections, receptors—that handle a dizzying array
   of functions: memory, perception, learning, reason-
   ing, emotion, instinct, consciousness, and more. Its
   system of organization and storage is holonomic,
   diffused, and disorganized. Even the genetically-
   modified and enhanced brains of transhumans are
   crowded, chaotic, cross-wired places, with each
   mind storing its memories, personality, and other
   defining features in unique ways.
     What this means is that though the general ar-
   chitecture and topography of neural networks can
   be scanned and deduced, the devil is in the details.
   Techniques used to modify, repair, or enhance one
   person's mind are not guaranteed equal success
   when applied to another's brain. For example, the
   process by which brains store knowledge, skills, and
   memories results in a strange chaining process where
   these memories are linked and associated with other
   memories, so attempts to alter one memory can
   have adverse affects on other memories. In the end,
   minds are slippery and dodgy things, and attempts
   to reshape them rarely go as planned.

   THE PROCESS OF PSYCHOSURGERY
   Psychosurgery is the process of selective, surgical altera-
   tion of a transhuman mind. It is a separate field from
   neural genetic modification (which alters genetic code),
   neuralware implantation (adding cybernetic or biotech
   inserts to the brain or nervous system), or brain hacking
   (software attacks on computer brains, neural inserts, and
   infomorphs), though they are sometimes combined.
      Psychosurgery is almost always performed on a
   digital mind-state, whether that be a real-time emula-
   tion, a backup, or a fork. In most cases, the subject's
   mind-state is copied via the same technology and pro-
   cess as uploading or forking, and run in a simulspace.
   The subject need not be willing, and in these cases
   the subject's permissions are restricted. Numerous
   psychosurgery simulspace environments are available,
   each custom-designed for facilitating specific psy-
   chosurgical goals and programmed with a thorough
   selection of psychotherapy treatment options.


ECT”
and supported by scientific      the mind-states of healthy individuals for
ate entrepreneurs and early     treating mental diseases and damage.
 st groups, the HCP developed   Though most HCP data is available to the
 entals of digitizing an ego    public, some argonauts claim that certain
major driving force towards     data is held hostage by some hypercorps,
anshumans with elevated         potentially for the development of pro-
 and brain capacity. The HCP    prietary mind-altering technologies.
 en instrumental in catalog-       After the Fall, the remnants of this
man minds and developing        project were acquired by the Planetary
 f “mind patches” based on      Consortium.
