   The actual process of psychosurgery breaks down
into several stages. First is diagnosis, which can
involve the use of several neuro-imaging techniques
on morphed characters, mapping synaptic connec-
tions, and building a neurochemical model. It can
also involve complete psychological profiling and
psychometric behavioral testing, including personal-
ity tests and simulspace scenario simulations. Digital
mind-states can be compared to records of people
with similar symptoms in order to identify related
information clusters. This analysis is used to plan
the procedure.
   The actual implementation of psychosurgical al-
teration can involve several methods, depending on
the desired results. Applying external modules to the
mind-state is often the best approach, as it doesn't
meddle with complicated connections and new inputs
are readily interpreted and assimilated. For treat-
ments, mental health software patches compiled from
databases of healthy minds are matched, customized,
and applied. Specialized programs may be run to
stimulate certain mental processes for therapeutic
purposes. Before an alteration is even applied, it may
first be performed on a fork of the subject and run at
accelerated speeds to evaluate the outcome. Likewise,
multiple treatment choices may be applied to time-ac-
celerated forks this way, allowing the psychosurgeon
to test which is likely to work best.
   Not all psychosurgery is performed for the subject's
benefit, of course. Psychosurgery can be used to inter-
rogate or torture prisoners, erase memories, modify
behavior, or inflict crippling impairments. It is also
sometimes used for legal punishment purposes, in
an attempt to impair criminal activity. Needless to
say, such methods are often brute-forced rather than
fine-tuned, ignoring safety parameters and sometimes
resulting in detrimental side effects.
PSYCHOSURGERY MECHANICS
In game terms, psychosurgery is handled as a Task
Action requiring an Opposed Test. The psychosurgeon
rolls Psychosurgery skill against the target's WIL x 3.
Apply modifiers as appropriate from the Psychosur-
gery Modifiers table.
   If the psychosurgeon succeeds and the subject fails,
the psychosurgery is effective and permanent. The
alteration becomes a permanent part of the subject's
ego, and will be copied when uploaded (and some-
times when forking).
   If both sides succeed but the psychosurgeon rolls
higher, the psychosurgery is effective but temporary. It
lasts for 1 week per 10 points of MoS.
   If the subject rolls higher, or if the psychosurgeon
fails their roll, the attempt does not work.
   The timeframe listed for psychosurgical procedures
is according to the patient's subjective point of view.
Since most subjects are treated in a simulspace, time
acceleration may drastically reduce the amount of
real-time such a procedure requires (see Defying Na-
ture's Laws, pp. 240–241).

MENTAL STRESS
Psychosurgery is a modification to the transhuman
mind, and sometimes to the actual person that resides
in that mind. It is unsurprising then that psychosur-
gery places stress on the subject's mental state and
sometimes even inflicts mental traumas.
   Each psychosurgery option lists a Stress Value
(SV) that is infl icted on the subject regardless of
the tests' success or failure. If the psychosurgeon
achieves an Excellent Success (MoS 30+), this stress
is halved (round down). If the psychosurgeon rolls
a Severe Failure (MoF 30+), the stress is doubled.
Alternately, a Severe Failure could result in unin-
tended side effects, such as affecting other behav-
iors, emotions, or memories.
