   If a critical success is rolled, no stress is applied at
all. If a critical failure is rolled, however, an automatic
trauma is applied in addition to the normal stress.
   Some psychosurgery conditions may also affect the
SV, as noted on the Psychosurgery Modifiers table.

ROLEPLAYING MIND EDITS
Many of the changes incurred by psychosurgery are
nebulous and difficult to pin down with game me-
chanics. Alterations to a character's personality and
mind-state are often better handled as roleplaying fac-
tors anyway. This means that players should make a
real effort to integrate any such mental modifications
into their character's words and actions, and game-
masters should ensure that a character's portrayal
plays true to their mind edits. Some psychosurgical
mods can be reflected with ego traits, while others
might incur modifiers to certain tests or in certain
situations. The gamemaster should carefully weigh a
brain alteration's effects, and apply modifiers as they
see appropriate.

PSYCHOSURGERY PROCEDURES
  The following alterations may be accomplished
with psychosurgery. At the gamemaster's discretion,
other mind-editing procedures may be attempted,
using these as a guideline.

BEHAVIORAL CONTROL
    TIMEFRAME:   1 week
                 Limit/Boost –10; Block/Encourage –20,
    PM:
                 Expunge/Enforce –30
    SV:         (1d10 ÷ 2, round up)
Commonly used for criminal rehabilitation, behavioral
control attempts to limit, block, or expunge a specific
behavior from the subject's psyche. For example, a
murderer may be conditioned against acts of aggres-
sion, or a kleptomaniac might be restricted from steal-
ing. Some people seek this adjustment willingly, such
as socialite glitterati who restrict their desire to eat, or
an addict who cuts out their craving for a fix.
   Behavioral control can also be applied as an un-
leashing or reinforcement. A companion may desire
to eliminate their sexual inhibitions, for example, or
a hypercorp exec may boost his commitment to place
work above all else.
  A character will simply feel compelled to avoid
a behavior that is limited (perhaps suffering a –10
modifier), but will find it quite difficult to pursue a be-
havior that is blocked (requiring a WIL x 3 Test, and
suffering a –20 modifier). They will find themselves
completely incapable of initiating a behavior that is
expunged, and if forced into the behavior will suffer
a –30 modifier and (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) points of
mental Stress.
   Likewise, a character will feel compelled to pursue a
behavior that is boosted, and will find it hard to avoid
 engaging in a behavior that is encouraged (requiring a
 WIL x 3 Test to avoid). They will have no choice but
 to engage in enforced behaviors, and will suffer (1d10
 ÷ 2, round up) points of mental Stress if prevented
 from doing so.

 BEHAVIORAL MASKING
      TIMEFRAME:   1 week
      PM:          –20
      SV:       1d10 ÷ 2, round up
    Given the ability to switch bodies, many security
 and law enforcement agencies have resorted to per-
 sonality and behavioral profiling as a means of iden-
 tifying people even when they resleeve. Though such
 systems are far from perfect, someone's unconscious
 habits and quirks could potentially give them away.
 Characters who wish to elude identification in this
 way may undergo behavioral masking, which seeks
 to alter and change the character's unconscious habits
 and social cues. Apply a +30 modifier when defending
 against such identification systems and Kinesics Tests.

 DEEP LEARNING
      TIMEFRAME:   Skill Learning Time +2
      PM:          +20
     SV:        1
    Using tutorial programs, memory reinforcement
 protocols, conditioning tasks, and deep brain stimula-
 tion, the subject's learning ability is reinforced, allow-
 ing them to learn new skills more quickly.

 EMOTIONAL CONTROL
      TIMEFRAME:   1 week
                   Limit/Boost –10; Block/Encourage –20,
      PM:
                   Expunge/Enforce –30
      SV:      (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 2
    Similar to behavioral control, emotional control
 seeks to modify, enhance, or restrict the subject's
 emotional responses. Some choose these modifica-
 tions willingly, such as limiting sadness in order to
 be happier, or encouraging aggression in order to be
 more competitive. Mercenaries and soldiers have been
 known to expunge fear. Follow the same rules as given
 for Behavioral Control.



        PSYCHOSURGERY MODIFIERS
                                      PSYCHOSURGERY
SITUATION                              TEST MODIFIER       SV MO
Improper Preparatory Diagnosis              –30               +
Safety Protocols Ignored                    +20                x
Simulspace Time Acceleration                –20               +
Subject is an AI, AGI, or uplift            –20               +
