INTERROGATION
    TIMEFRAME:   Variable (gamemaster discretion; 1 week default)
    PM:          +30
    SV:       1d10
  Psychosurgery can be used for interrogative pur-
poses via the application of mental torture and ma-
nipulation. A successful Psychosurgery Test applies a
+30 modifier to the Intimidation Test for interrogation.

MEMORY EDITING
    TIMEFRAME:   1 week (2 weeks adding/replacing)
    PM:          –10 (willing) or –30 (forced)
    SV:       (1d10 ÷ 2, round up)
   By monitoring memory recall (forcibly invoked
if necessary), psychosurgeons can identify where
memories are stored in the brain and target them for
removal. Memory storage is complex and diffused,
however, and often linked to other memories, so re-
moving one memory may affect others (gamemaster
discretion).
  Adding or replacing memories is a much more com-
plicated operation and requires that such memories be
copied from someone who has experienced them or
manufactured with XP software. Even when success-
fully implanted, fake memories may clash with other
(real) memories unless those are also erased.

PERSONALITY EDITING
    TIMEFRAME:   1 week
    PM:          Minor –10; Moderate –20, Major –30
    SV:        (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 3
   Possibly the most drastic psychosurgery procedure,
personality editing involves altering the subject's core
personality traits. The personality factors that may be
modified is almost unlimited, including traits such as
openness, conscientiousness, altruism, extroversion/
introversion, impulsiveness, curiosity, creativity, con-
fidence, sexual orientation, and self-control, among
others. These traits may be enhanced or reduced to
varying degrees. The effect is largely reflected by role-
playing, but the gamemaster may apply modifiers as
they see fit.

PSYCHOTORTURE
    TIMEFRAME:   Variable
    PM:          +30
    SV:       1d10 SV per day
  Psychotorture is mental manipulation for the simple
intention of causing pain and anguish, reflected in
game terms as mental stress and traumas. Prolonged
torture can lead to serious mental disorders or worse.
PSYCHOTHERAPY
    TIMEFRAME:   Variable
    PM:          +0
    SV:        0
  Therapeutic psychosurgery is beneficial for charac-
ters suffering from mental stress, traumas, and disor-
ders. A successful Psychosurgery Test applies a +30
modifier to mental healing tests, as noted on p. 215.

SKILL IMPRINTS
    TIMEFRAME:   1 week per +10
    PM:          +0
    SV:        1 per +10
  Skill imprinting is the use of psychosurgery to insert
skill-set neural patterns in the subject's brain, tempo-
rarily boosting their ability. Skill imprints are artificial
boosts, however, degrading at the rate of –10 per day.
No skill may be boosted higher than 60.

SKILL SUPPRESSION
    TIMEFRAME:   1 day per –10
    PM:          –10
    SV:       1 per +10
  Skill suppression attempts to identify where skills
are stored in the brain and then block or remove
them. The subject's skill is impaired and may be lost
entirely.

TASPING
    TIMEFRAME:   1 day
    PM:          +10
    SV:         1
   Tasping is the use of deep brain stimulation tech-
niques to tickle the mind's pleasure centers. Though
this procedure is often used for therapeutic purposes
for patients suffering from depression or other mental
illnesses, the intent with tasping is to overload the
subject into a prolonged state of almost unendurable
bliss. Such stimulation is highly addictive, however, so
character's exposed to it for any length of time (over
1 hour, subjective) are likely to pick up the Addiction
trait (p. 148). Some criminal organizations have been
known to use tasping addiction and rewards as a
means of controlling those under their thrall.
