 ESH■THE MESH■THE MESH■THE MESH



MESH
   Before the Fall, humanity interfaced with each other
   through the internet, interconnected networks that
   served as the technical backbone for the evolv-
   ing world wide web. While it began as a electronic
   medium for retrieving information from various
   sources (replacing even older paper-based info-
   sources), succeeding generations emphasized digital
   communities and hosted services such as networking
   sites, wikis, blogs, and folksonomies. These facili-
   tated openness, collaboration, and sharing, thereby
   laying the groundwork for a modern, interconnected
   information society. Further stages emphasized wire-
   less interaction, geolocation, and semantic web ap-
   proaches and achieved quantum leaps in the realm
   of user interaction with the advent of brain-computer
   interfaces, augmented reality (AR), virtual reality
   (VR), and experience playback (XP).
      This environment, coupled with the exponential
   growth of processing power and memory storage, cre-
   ated an evolutionary path for the development of intel-
   ligent agents—designed to augment human informa-
   tion processing—that then transformed into artificial
   intelligences (AIs) in the following decades. While these
  “weak” AIs did not possess the full range of human
   cognitive abilities, tended towards overspecialization,
   and were restrained by programmed limitations, the
   digital evolution toward artificial general intelligences
   (AGIs)—”strong” AIs with intelligence capabilities
   that equaled or exceeded human abilities—could not
   be halted. From this point it was but a matter of time
   before so-called seed AI would come into existence,
   machine minds capable of recursive self-improvement,
   leading to an exponential growth in intelligence. Un-
   fortunately for humanity, the TITANs were the result.
      Even before the Fall, however, the internet of old
   was transforming into something new. Instead of con-
   necting via central servers, users were wirelessly link-
   ing to each other, creating a decentralized intermeshed
   network of handheld devices, personal computers,
   robots, and electronic devices. Users were online all of
   the time and connected with everything and everyone
   around them in a ubiquitous computing environment.
  This was especially true of those participating in
   humanity's expansion into space. Disconnected from
   the internet due to distance and light-speed commu-
   nication lags, these users were nevertheless connected
   with all of the people and objects in their nearby
   environment or habitat, creating local wireless mesh
   networks. Thus was the mesh born, taking the place
   of the old internet of earth, lost during the Fall.



  MESH CAPABILITIES
  The mesh, as it exists in Eclipse Phase, is only possible
  thanks to major developments made in computer and
  communication technologies and nanofabrication.
HE MESH■THE MESH■THE MESH■THE
                 THE MESH■THE
                     MESH■

                                                             6


 Wireless radio transmitters and receivers are so unob-
 trusively tiny that they can literally be factored into
 anything. As a result, everything is computerized and
 connected, or at least tagged with a radio frequency
 ID (RFID) chip. Even food is tagged with edible chips,
 complete with expiration date and nutritional content.
 Other communications mediums, such as laser and
 microwave links, add to the information flow.
    Data storage technology has advanced to such high
 levels that even an individual user's surplus storage
 capacity can maintain an amount of information
 easily surpassing the entire 20th-century internet.
 Lifeloggers can literally record every moment of their
 life and never fear about running out of room. The
 amount of data that people carry around in the mesh
 inserts in their head or in portable ecto personal com-
 puters is staggering.
    Processing capabilities also exist at hyper-efficient
 levels. Even massive supercomputers are a thing of the
 past when modest handheld devices can fulfill almost
 all of your needs, even while simultaneously running a
 personal AI assistant, downloading media, uploading
 porn, and scanning thousands of newsfeeds. Within
 the mesh network, devices that near their processing
 limits simply share the burden with devices around
 them, creating a massively distributed framework that
 in some ways is like an entire supercomputer to itself,
 shared by everyone.
    Similarly, transmission capacity now far exceeds
 most citizens' definition of need. Anyone born within
 the last several generations has always lived in a world
 in which hyper-realistic, multi-sensory media of nearly
 any length is available for instantaneous download
 or upload from anywhere. Massive databases and
 archives are copied back and forth with ease. Band-
 width is such a non-issue that most people forget it ever
 was. In fact, given the sheer amount of data available,
 finding the information or media you're looking for
 takes considerably longer than downloading it. The
 mesh is also never down. As a decentralized network,
 if any one device is taken offline, connections merely
 route around it, finding a path via the thousands if not
 millions of available nodes. Similarly, the entire mesh
 behaves like a peer-to-peer network, so that large trans-
 fers are broken into manageable chunks that take inde-
 pendent routes. In fact, most users maintain personal
 torrent archives that are publicly accessible and shared.
    Private networks still exist, of course. Some are
 physically walled away behind closed-access wired net-
 works or even wireless-inhibiting infrastructure that
 keep a network isolated and contained. Most, however,
 operate on top of the public mesh, using encrypted
 tunneling protocols that provide private and secure
 communications over unsecured networks. In other
 words, these private networks are part of the mesh
 along with everything else, but only the participants
