SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: ECTO(-LINK)
                A very popular brand of mobile mul-       tools, a
                tifunctional personal digital assistant   izing
                before the Fall, the ecto name became     update
                a synonym for handheld personal           tion s
                computers in the Mesh Age. Standard       softwa
                implanted computers are also some-        OS de
                times referred to as endos to reflect     allowi
                the difference between an external        whate
                and an internal device.                   gadge
                   No matter if ecto or endo, modern      user's
                computers are governed by an oper-        facilita
             ECTO(-LINK)
                ating system (OS), a multifunctional         The
                suite of programs that includes media     of 20t




 can interact with them thanks to encryption, user au-
 thentication, and message integrity checking.
   With the factionalization of transhumanity, at-
 tempts to unify software into standard formats have
 still failed. However, different operating systems
 or protocols are rarely an obstacle anymore due to
 easily accessible conversion tools and AI-aided com-
 patibility oversight.

 MESHING TECHNOLOGIES
 Almost all biomorphs in the solar system are equipped
 with basic mesh inserts (p. 300)—implanted personal
 computers. These implants are grown in the brain via
 non-intrusive nanosurgery. The processor, wireless
 transceiver, storage devices, and other components
 are directly wired to the user's cerebral neuronal cells
 and cortical centers responsible for language, speech,
 and visual perception among others. Thought-to-
 communication emulations (so called transducing)
 enables the user to control the implant just by think-
 ing and to communicate without vocalizing. Input
 from the mesh inserts is transmitted directly into the
 brain and sometimes perceived as augmented reality,




   LEGACY OF THE TITANs
   Given the technical capabilities of modern perso
   broadband are not needed. But there is another r
     Mainframes, hive-mind clusters, and massively p
   are all considered potential dangers in Eclipse Ph
   capacity to enable a seed AI and another potent
   outlaw such systems completely under the sever
   backups and recent forks, in most cases.
     Those supercomputers that habitats do allow a
   systems like orbit maintenance thrusters, life sup
   R&D projects. These systems are typically physicall
   data processing centers with strong access restrict
     Similarly, AIs themselves are quite often heavil
   banned, especially in the inner system and Jovia
   programmed growth restraints, specifically design
sh browser, locator, social-     be molded and shaped into different
rams (messenger, socnet          forms due to smart material construc-
cartography and naviga-          tion. They are often worn as jewelry or
are, language translation        clothing accessories, particularly brace-
 nd similar software tools.      lets. The user interface varies according
  are highly customizable,       to user preference. Wireless-enabled
 lug-and-use add-ons for         contacts and earbuds equip users who
additional software and          lack mesh implants, enabling them to
re desired. Typically, the       experience augmented reality and the
 e (personal AI assistant)       ecto's AR control interface. Standard
oftware interactions.            entoptic control interfaces are also
  itself is typically the size   available via wireless radio, skinlink,
ntury credit card and can        and direct fiberoptic line.




   overlaid on the user's physical senses. In a similar
   vein, the mesh inserts installed in synthmorphs and
   pods are directly integrated with their cyberbrains
   (creating a potential security concern as cyberbrains
   are vulnerable to hacking).
      External devices called ectos (p. 325) are also
   used to access the mesh, though these are growing
   increasingly rare given the prevalence of mesh inserts.
   Ecto interface options include haptic interfaces like
   touch-display controls, bracelets or gloves that detect
   arm, hand, or finger movements (virtual mouse and
   keyboards), eye tracking and blink control, body
   scanning grids (body axis control or all-limb controls
   for non-humanoids), voice controls, and more. Sen-
   sory information is handled via lenses, glasses, ear-
   plugs (subdermal bone-vibrating speakers), bodysuits,
   gloves, nose plugs, tongue dams, and other devices
   that are wirelessly linked to (or physically plugged
   into) the ecto.

    INFORMATION OVERLOAD
   The mesh contains massive amounts of personal and
   public information shared by users, a digital commons




 computers, supercomputers and cutting-edge wired
on they are avoided: the TITANs.
allel distributed computing parallel hive-mind systems
  as they possess sufficient processing power and data
hard takeoff singularity. Some habitats go so far as to
of penalties: final death including the deletion of all

“hard networks” that control a habitat's most crucial
t, communications, power, or cutting-edge hypercorp
 red, heavily monitored, and locked down in electronic
s and ruthless real-world security measures.
 stricted, and it is not unusual for AGIs to be outright
Republic. Most intelligent programs are limited with
 to prevent them from becoming self-upgrading.        ■
