of news, media, discourse, knowledge, environmental
data, business, and culture. Transhumans embrace
the mesh as a tool for exchange, communication,
and participation with other users, both local and far
away. As such, the mesh is an up-to-date, authoritative
source on all transhuman knowledge and activities.
   Not everything online is available for free, of course,
except perhaps in the autonomist zones. Quite a bit of
proprietary data is kept off the grid in secure storage
or sequestered away in private networks. Some of this
is for sale, and heavily encumbered with digital restric-
tions—software, media, nanofabrication blueprints,
skillsofts, etc. A thriving open source movement offers
free and open source alternatives to much proprietary
data, however, and numerous digital piracy groups
deal out cracked versions of proprietary material,
despite pressure from some authorities. Other data is
simply secured from competitive interests (hypercorp
research projects) or is an extremely private affair,
such as ego backups.

SPIMES
Along with the accumulated data of transhuman
affairs, the mesh is also cluttered with information
derived from untold numbers of wireless-capable sen-
sor-enabled devices that continuously update the mesh
with their location, sensor recordings, and other data.
Colloquially called “spimes,” these location-aware,
environment-aware, self-logging, self-documenting
objects broadcast their data to anyone who cares to
listen. Since visual, auditory, and other sensors are
absurdly tiny and inexpensive, they are ubiquitously
incorporated into nearly every object or product a
person might wear, apply, use, or internalize. This
allows almost any user to reach out through the mesh
and gather environmental data and ambient sensor
recordings from a specific location (or at least public
locales—private areas typically block such signals or
slave them to a local AI that filters their output).

SURVEILLANCE, PRIVACY, AND SOUSVEILLANCE
While spimes are easily trackable, they also con-
tribute to an environment of universal surveillance.
Between spimes, microsensors, ubiquitous security
systems, and the recording capabilities of the mesh
inserts used by almost everyone, just about every-
thing is recorded. Factor in the availability of mesh-
tracking, facial recognition, rep/social networks, and
other data mining software, and it rapidly becomes
clear that privacy is an outdated concept. Special
considerations must be embraced by anyone that
seeks to mask their identity or cover their movements.
Alternately, off-the-shelf looks common with some
morphs (especially synthmorphs and pods) allow a
user to blend in with the masses.
   Though in part this may seem an Orwellian sur-
veillance nightmare, the abundance of recording
tech actually works as “sousveillance” (watching
from below), serving a role in making everything
transparent and putting checks on abuses of power.
