Authoritarian regimes tread carefully, as they are also
universally monitored, despite their attempts to con-
trol information flow. Many people also willing par-
ticipate in this open “participatory panopticon.” With
nearly infinite storage capacity, dedicated lifeloggers
record every moment of their lives and share it for
others to experience.



INTERFACING: AR, VR, AND XP
Mesh media is accessed using one of three protocols:
augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), or expe-
rience playback (XP).

AUGMENTED REALITY
 Most users perceive data from the mesh as aug-
 mented reality—information overlaid on the user's
 physical senses. For example, computer-generated
 graphics will appear as translucent images, icons,
 or text in the user's field of vision. While visual AR
 data—called entoptic data—is the most common,
 other senses may also be used. AR is not limited
 to visuals, however, and can also include acoustic
 sounds and voices, odors, tastes, and even tactile
 sensations. This sensory data is high-resolution and
 seemingly “real,” though it is usually presented as
 something ghostly or otherwise artificial so as not
 to be confused with real-world interactions (and
 also to meet safety regulations).
   User interfaces are customized to the user's prefer-
 ences and needs, both graphically and content-wise.
 Filters allow users to access the information they
 are interested in without needing to worry about
 extraneous data. While AR data is typically placed
 in the user's normal field of vision, entoptics are not
 actually limited by this and may be viewed in the
“mind's eye.” Nevertheless, icons, windows and other
 interaction prompts can be layered, stacked, toggled,
 hidden, or shifted out of the way if necessary to in-
 teract with the physical world.

AVATARS
Every mesh represents themselves online via a digi-
tal avatar. Many people use digital representations
of themselves, whereas other prefer more iconic
designs. This may be an off-the-shelf look or a
customized icon. Libraries of avatars may also be
employed, enabling a user to switch their represen-
tation according to mood. Avatars are what other
users see when they deal with you online—i.e., how
you are represented in AR. Most avatars are ani-
mated and programmed to reflect the user's actual
mood and speech, so that the avatar seems to speak
and have emotions.

E-TAGS
Entoptic tags are a way for people to “tag” a physical
person, place, or object with a piece of virtual data.
These e-tags are stored in networks local to the tagged
item, and move with the item if it changes location.
INFORMATION AT
YOUR FINGERTIPS
The following information is always available for m
mesh users in a normal habitat:

LOCAL CONDITIONS
- Local maps showing your current location, annotated with
  local features of personal interest (according to your perso
  preferences and filters) and your distance from them/direct
  to them. Details regarding private and restricted areas (gov
  ment/hypercorp areas, maintenance/security infrastructure,
  are usually not included.
- Current habitat life support (climate) conditions including
  atmosphere composition, temperature.
- Current solar system and habitat orbit maps with trajectory
  plots, communication delays.
- Local businesses/services, directions, and details.

LOCAL MESH
- Public search engines, databases, mesh sites, blogs, forums
  archives, along with new content alerts.
- Syndicated public newsfeeds in a variety of formats, filtered
  according to your preferences.
- Sensor/spime (mostly audio-visual) feeds from any public a
  of the habitat.
- Private network resources (including tactical nets).
- Automatic searches for new online references to your nam
  and other subjects of interest.
- E-tags pertaining to local people, places, or things.
- Facial/image recognition searches of public mesh/archives
  match a photo/vid still.

PERSONAL INFORMATION
- Morph status indicators (medical and/or mechanical): blood
  pressure, heart rate, temperature, white cell count, nutrient
  levels, implant status and functionality, etc.
- Location, functionality, sensor feeds, and status reports of y
  possessions (via sensors and transmitters in these possessi
- Access to one's life-spanning personal audio-visual/XP arch
- Access to one's life-spanning personal file archive (music, s
  ware, media, documents, etc.).
- Credit account status and transactions.

SOCIAL NETWORKS
- Communications account status: calls, messages, files, etc.
- Reputation score and feedback.
- Social network status, friend updates.
- Updated event calendar and alerts.
- The public social network profiles of those around you.
- The location and status of those nearby and involved in the
  same AR games as you.
