 E-tags are viewable in AR, and can hold almost any
 type of data, though short notes and pictures are the
 most common. E-tags are often linked to particular
 social networks or circles within that network, so that
 people can leave notes, reviews, memorabilia media,
 and similar things for friends and colleagues.

 SKINNING
 Since reality can be overlaid with entoptics of hyper-
 real quality, modern users can “skin” their reality by
 modifying their perceptual input. Environments around
 them may be modified to fit their particular tastes or
 mood. Need your spirits boosted? Pull up a skin that
 makes it seems like your outdoors, with the sun shining
 down, the sounds of gentle surf in the background, and
 butterflies drifting lazily overhead. Pissed off? Be com-
 forted as flames engulf the walls and thunder grumbles
 ominously in the distance. It is not uncommon for
 people to go about their day, accompanied by their own
 personal soundtrack that only they can hear. Even ol-
 factory and taste receptors can be artificially stimulated
 to experience sensations like the smell of roses, fresh air,
 or freshly-baked pastries. While originally developed
 to make “space food” less distasteful and as a method
 to counter space-induced cabin fever for those that
 weren't born in space, vast archives of aromas, tastes,
 and environments are available for download.
    Skins do not need to be kept private, they may
 also be shared with others via the mesh. Tired of
 your cramped habitat cubicle? Decorate it with a




JABBER
       # Start Æther Jabber #
       # Active Members: 2 #

           1
             I have to tell you, after losing Kiri and Sal to that Exsur
             infection, my team is a lot more worried about contracting
             virus from digital sources. Actually, I'd label them as paran
             I don't think they'll ever touch any salvaged electronics a
             unless they're behind a zillion firewalls and the device is c
             pletely isolated and tested by a delta fork loaded with e
             antiviral ware we can find first. Even then, they'd rather sho
             than access directly or hook it up to an important network. A
             seeing what the virus did to Sal, I don't blame them.
       2
             In our line of work, paranoia can be healthy.
           1
             Sure, but it's also a pain in the ass. Security is always a tr
             off. Firewall's gotta have something up its sleeve that I can
             along to the rest to put their guards at ease.
       2
             Yes ... and no. It's complicated.
           1
             I don't see why. Do we have a way of detecting and killing
             thing or not?
       2
             Sort of.
           1
             You're killing me.
       2
             Look. Ever since the Fall, we've had measures in plac
             detect and counteract Exsurgent infections and all of the o
custom-themed skin and share it with visitors to make
them feel more comfortable. Found a new music track
that livens up your day? Share it with others around
you, so they can nod to the same beat.
  Skinning can also be used for the opposite effect.
Any undesired content of reality can be edited out,
veiled, or censored by modern software programs or
muses that engage in real-time editing. Tired of look-
ing at someone's face? Add them to your killfile, and
you'll never have to acknowledge their presence again.
AR censorware is also common in some communities
with strict religious or moral convictions.

VIRTUAL REALITY
Virtual reality overrides the user's physical senses and
places them inside an entirely computer-generated
environment called a simulspace. While AR is used
for all common day activities and interactions, VR is
used mainly for recreation (gaming, virtual tourism,
escapism), socializing, meeting (when face-to-face
meetings are not possible), and training. Dedicated
networks with high-capacity information processing
are required to render and run large and complex
hyper-real simulspaces with many users, and these
are often hard-wired for additional stability. Smaller
simulspaces capable of hosting a smaller amount of
users can be run on a smaller distributed network of
linked devices. Many infomorphs and AIs effectively
reside within simulspaces, and some transhumans
have sworn off the physical world altogether.




      worms and malware the TITANs concocted. Firewall went to
      great lengths to make sure that everyone had access to the
      detection signatures and countermeasures—and we mean ev-
      eryone. They've been incorporated in almost every commercial
      and open source security software released in the past decade.
      Every habitat in the system—well, every one with a lick of
      sense anyway—employs such measures in their chokepoints
      and mesh infrastructure.
    1
      I sense a “but.”
2
      Yes. The problem is that the Exsurgent virus and similar TITAN
      infowar worms are adaptive. They're intelligent. Even though
      we mostly eradicated them from our networks, new versions
      periodically pop up, using some new trick to get past the
      Firewall scans and wreak havoc. Our warning and outbreak
      response system has it down to a science, and such instances
      are usually contained.
    1
      Usually.
2
      Well, there's always the chance that variants are still skipping
      around out there, under our radar. What's worse to contemplate,
      though, is that we may get another major outbreak that spreads
      to multiple habitats before we can contain it. That might get
      very, very bad, very, very quickly.
