DEFYING NATURE'S LAWS
A plethora of simulspace environments are available,
ranging from simulations of real places to historical
recreations to fantastic worlds representing almost
every genre imaginable. All of these simulations are
bolstered by the fact that possible scenarios are not
bound by the laws of nature. The fundamental forces
of reality and nature, like gravitation, electromag-
netism, atmosphere, temperature, etc., are program-
mable in VR, allowing for environments that are
completely unnatural, such as escheresque simulspace
where gravity is relative to position. These domain
rules may be altered and manipulated according to
the whim of the designer.
  Time itself is an adjustable constant in VR, though
deviation from true time has its limits. So far, tran-
shuman designers have achieved time dilation up to
60 times faster or slower than real time (roughly one
minute equaling either one hour or one second). Time
slowdown is far more commonly used, granting more
time for simulspace recreational activities (more time,
more fun!), learning, or work (economically effective).
Time acceleration, on the other hand, is extremely
useful for making long distance travel through space
more tolerable.

ACCESSING SIMULSPACES
Most simulspaces can be accessed through the mesh
just like any other node. Since VR takes over the
user's sensorium, however, and sometimes involves
time perception dilation, users are cut off from other
mesh-delivered sensory input and interacting directly
with other nodes. Instead, outside mesh interactions
are routed through the simulspace's interface (mean-
ing that a character may browse the mesh, communi-
cate with others, etc. from inside a simulspace, if the
domain rules allow it).
   Since physical senses are overridden when a user
accesses VR, most people prefer to rest their body
in a safe and comfortable environment while in the
simulspace. Body-fitting cushions and couches help
users relax and keep them from cramping up or in-
juring themselves if they happen to thrash around.
In case of long-term virtual sojourns (for instance,
during space travel), morphs are normally retained
in tanks that sustain them in terms of nutrition and
oxygen. Many VR entertainment and game networks
offer dedicated and hardwired physical VR cafes
with private pods. Visitors rent a pod and physically
jack in, using either access jacks or an ultrasonic
trode net that reads and transmits brain patterns
when placed on the head.
  When accessing a simulspace, the user first enters
an electronic buffer “holding space” known as a
white room. Here the user chooses a customizable
avatar-like persona to represent them in the simul-
space, called a simulmorph. From this point, the user
immerses themself in the virtual reality environment,
effectively becoming their simulmorph.
EXPERIENCE PLAYBACK
Every morph with mesh inserts has the capability
to transmit or record their experiences, a form of
technology called experience playback, or XP. Since
the first programs were developed that provide a
simple interface to “snapshot” ones experiences, it
has become extremely popular to share XP with
friends and social networks, or with the online public
at large.
   The level of experiences depends on how much of
the recorded sensory perception is kept when the clip
is made. Full XP includes exteroceptive, interoceptive,
and emotive tracks. Exteroceptive tracks include the
traditional senses of sight, smell, hearing, touch, and
taste that process the outside world. Interoceptive
tracks include senses originating within the body, such
as balance, a sense of motion, pain, hunger and thirst,
and a general sense of the location of one's own body
parts. Emotive tracks include the whole spectrum of
emotions which can be aroused in a transhumans.
Due to the biological requirements (neuronal and
endocrine systems) of expressing emotions, hardcore
XP aficionados deem only the experience in and from
biomorphs as the real deal.



MESH USES
There are many reasons people use the mesh. The
foremost is communication: voice and video calls
(typically displaying avatars rather than actual
video), electronic messaging (e-mail, instant mes-
saging, microblogging), and file and data transfers.
Socializing is also key, handled via social and reputa-
tion networks, personal profiles, lifelogging, chats
and conferences (both AR and VR), and discussion
groups and forums. Information gathering is also
at the top, whether its browsing the popular Solar-
chive or other databases and directories, tapping
the latest newsfeeds, browsing mesh sites, tracking
your friends, taking lessons in VR, or looking up just
about anything conceivable. Recreation rounds out
the pack, covering everything from gaming (AR and
VR) to experiencing other people's lives (XP) to VR
tourism and club-hopping.

PERSONAL AREA NETWORKS
Since everything a person carries is meshed, most
people maintain personal area networks that route
all of these devices through their mesh inserts or ecto,
which acts as a hub. This is both a security measure,
ensuring they maintain control over their own acces-
sories, and a convenience factor, as it focuses all of the
controls in one place.

VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORKS
Virtual private networks (VPNs) are communica-
tions networks tunneled through the mesh, which
are dedicated for a specific group of people. The
primary use of VPNs is to create privacy and secu-
rity for its users, and so they typically use security
