features such as ego authentication and public key
encryption. VPNs are regularly used to mesh mobile
offices into a corporate network or mesh people to-
gether who work on or contribute a certain project.
Other VPNs—particularly social networks and rep
networks—operate with minimal security features,
simply serving as a network of specific users within
the mesh and making it easier to keep in touch,
transfer information, make updates, and so on. Most
VPNs come as specialized software suites that run
custom environmental software that integrates into
the user's normal mesh interface and AR.

SOCIAL NETWORKS
Social networks are the fabric of the mesh, weaving
people together. They are the means by which most
people keep in contact with their friends, colleagues,
and allies, as well as current events, the latest trends,
new memes, and other developments in shared
interests. They are an exceptionally useful tool for
online research, getting favors, and meeting new
people. In some cases, they are useful for reaching
or mobilizing masses of people (as often illustrated
by anarchists and pranksters). There are thousands
of social networks, each serving different cultural
and professional interests and niches. Most social
networks allow users to feature a public profile to
the entire mesh and a private profile that only those
close to them can access.
  Reputation plays a vital part in social networks,
serving as a measure of each person's social capital.
Each person's reputation score is available for lookup,
along with any commentary posted by people who
favored or disfavored them and rebuttals by the user.
Many people automate their reputation interactions,
instructing their muse to automatically ping some-
one with a good review after a positive action and
to likewise provide negative feedback to people with
whom the interaction went poorly.

MOBILE OFFICES
Due to the lack of office space and the wireless ac-
cessibility of most information, most businesses
now operate virtually, with few or no fixed offices
or even assets. Instead, individuals have become their
own mobile office. Bit-pushers and bureaucrats like
hypercorp executives, clerical workers, accountants,
and researchers—as well as innovators like artists,
writers, engineers, and designers—work wherever
they want to.
  The most prominent example of this phenomenon
are the bankers of the Solaris hypercorp. Each em-
ployee acts as a mobile one-person banking office,
managing transactions via Solaris's robust VPN.
   On rare occasions, office environments are run
in simulspace with time dilation to maximize effi-
ciency. Since this requires the workers to access a
centralized wired network and leave their bodies
unattended while accessing simulspace, however, it
requires an extra level of physical security that is
typical only of some governmental installations and
corporate habitats.



ISLANDS IN THE NET
In the time of Eclipse Phase, information can become
outdated quite fast, and the accessibility of new infor-
mation depends on your location. It's easy to keep up-
to-date on your local habitat/city or planetary body,
but keeping current on events elsewhere is typically
reliant on the speed of light.
   If you happen to be in a station in the Kuiper Belt,
on the edge of the solar system 50 astronomical units
from the terrestrial inner planets, waiting on a mes-
sage from Mars, the signal carrying the message will
be roughly seven hours old when it reaches you. Of
course it will only reach you that fast if you are using
quantum farcast, which is only limited by the speed
of light (not to mention rare and expensive in most
habitats). If you are not using a quantum farcaster,
the signal may take even longer and is prone to in-
terference and noise, deteriorating the quality and
possibly losing some of the content, especially over
major distances. Whenever you start dealing with
communication between habitats, you have to factor
in the light-speed lag, the amount of time it takes
even the fastest transmission to reach you. This lag
works both ways, so trying to hold a conversation
with someone just 5 light-seconds away means that
you're waiting at least 10 seconds to get the reply
to whatever you just said. For this reason, AR and
VR communications are almost always conducted lo-
cally, while standard messaging is used for nonlocal
communications. For detailed discussions, it is often
simpler to send a fork of yourself (p. 273) to have the
conversation and then return.
  Quantum-entanglement communicators (p. 314)
are one solution to this light-speed lag, although a
burdensome and expensive one. QE comms allow
for faster-than-light communication to an entangled
communicator, though each transmission uses up a
precious amount of quantum-entangled bits, which
are in limited supply.
  Transmissions made between habitats almost
always occur via each station's massive data relays,
where they are then distributed into the local mesh.
This bottleneck is often used by authoritarian habitats
to monitor data transmissions and even filter or censor
certain public non-encrypted content. Some messages
are also prioritized over others, potentially meaning
further delays.
