   The method of transmission between habitats also
sometimes matters. Radio and neutrino broadcasts
can be intercepted by anyone, whereas tight-beam
laser or microwave links are specifically used as a
point-to-point method that minimizes interception
and eavesdropping. The use of quantum farcasting
using neutrino systems is completely secure, however,
and is the most frequently-used intra-habitat link.
   What these lags, bottlenecks, and prioritizations
mean is that some news and data takes a particularly
long-time to trickle from one local mesh network to
another, passing slowly from habitat to habitat. This
means that there are always gradients of information
available to different local mesh networks, typically
depending on proximity and the importance of the
information. Some data even gets lost along the way,
never making it further than a habitat or two before
it is lost in the noise. The only way to retrieve such
information is to track it down to its source.

DARKCASTS
“Darkcasts” are ranged communications that go out-
 side of legal and approved channels. Since certain hab-
 itats have strict regulations on transmission content,
 forking, egocasting, infomorphs, muse abilities, and
AGI code, underworld groups like the ID crew profit
 by offering illegal data transmission services. Primarily
 used for censored data and banned content (like illegal
XPs or malware), local organized crime factions also
 often offer egocasting services complete with resleev-
 ing and leasable morphs, allowing egos that prefer
 discretion to enter or leave a habitat without drawing
 attention. Though such authorities hunt down these
 darkcast networks whenever they get a chance, many
 habitats have a sophisticated darkcast infrastructure
 that makes use of decoys, temporary communications
 lines, relays, and regular transmitter relocation—not
 to mention judicious bribing and blackmailing.
MESH ABUSES
As with all things, the mesh has its darker side. At
the basic level, this amounts to flamewar-starting
trolls, stalkers, or griefers whose intent is to mess
with others for a laugh. At the more organized level,
it expands to illicit or criminal enterprises that utilize
the mesh, such as selling black/snuff/porn XPs, ille-
gal software, pirated media, or even egos. The most
infamous threats—thanks both to the Fall and to
the continuous sensationalism applied by media and
stern authorities—are, of course, malware and hack-
ers. Given the capabilities of modern hackers and the
vulnerability of many habitats—where damage to life
support systems could kill thousands—the threat may
not be over-exaggerated.

HACKERS
Whether individuals who are genuinely interested
in exploring new technologies and seeking ways to
break them in order to make them better, hacktiv-
ists who utilize the mesh in order to undermine the
power of authorities, or “black hats” who seek to
circumvent network security for malicious or crimi-
nal intent, hackers are a permanent fixture of the
mesh. Unauthorized network break-ins, infiltration
of VPNs, muse subversion, cyberbrain hijacking, data
theft, cyber-extortion, identity fraud, denial of service
attacks, electronic warfare, spime hijacking, entoptic
vandalism—these are all common occurrences on the
mesh. Thanks to smart and adaptive exploit programs
and assisting muses, even a moderately skilled hacker
can be a threat.
   In order to counter hacking attempts, most people,
devices, and networks are protected by a mix of
access control routines, automated software intru-
sion prevention systems, encryption, and layered
firewalls, typically overseen by the user's muse who
plays the role of active defender. Extremely sensitive
