systems—such as space traffic control, life support,
power systems, and hypercorporate research facili-
ties—are usually limited to isolated, tightly-controlled,
heavily-monitored, hard-wired networks to minimize
the risk of intrusion from snoopers and saboteurs.
various countermeasures may be applied against
such intruders, ranging from locking them out of the
system to tracking them back and counterhacking.

MALWARE
The number of worms, virii, and other malware pro-
grams that ripped through computer systems during
the Fall was staggering. Many of these were part of
the netwar systems prepared by old Earth nation-states
and corporations and unleashed on their enemies.
Others were products of the TITANs, subversive pro-
grams that even the best defenses had trouble stopping.
Even 10 years later, many of these are still reappearing,
brought back to life by the accessing of some long-
forgotten data cache or the accidental infection of a
scavenger mucking through old ruins. New ones pop
every day, of course, many of them programmed by
criminal hacker outfits, while others that enter circu-
lation are modifications and variations of suspected
TITAN designs, perhaps implying that certain parties
are intentionally tinkering with this code and releasing
it into the wild. Rumors and whispers circulate that
some of these TITAN worms are even more potent and
frightening than previously hinted at, with stunning
adaptive capabilities and intelligence. These rumors
are steadfastly denied by authority figures and security
experts ... who then quietly turn around and do their
best to ensure that their own networks remain safe.



AI S AND INFOLIFE
Self-aware helper programs were originally designed
and realized to augment transhuman cognitive abili-
ties. These specialized-focus AIs were then developed
into the more complete, independent digital conscious-
nesses known as AGIs. The further evolution of these
digital life forms into seed AIs unfortunately led to the
emergence of the TITANs and then the Fall. This cre-
ated a rift in transhuman society as fear and prejudice
turned popular opinion against unrestricted AGIs, an
attitude of mistrust that still lingers to this day.

AI S
The term AI is used to refer to narrow, limited-focus
AIs. These digital minds are expert programs with pro-
cessing capabilities equal to or even exceeding that of
a transhuman mind. Though they have a personality
matrix with individual identities and character, and
though they are (usually) conscious and self-aware,
their overall complexity and capabilities are limited.
The programmed skills and abilities of AIs are typi-
cally very specific in scope and aligned towards a par-
ticular function, such as piloting a vehicle, facilitating
mesh searches, or coordinating the functions of some
habitat sub-system. Some AIs, in fact, can only barely
be considered sapient, and their emotional program-
ming is usually narrow or non-existent.
  AIs have a number of built-in safety features and
programmed limitations. They must serve and obey the
instructions of authorized users within their normal
functioning parameters and (in the inner system at
least) must also obey the law. They lack self-interest
and self-initiative, though they have limited empathy
and may be programmed to anticipate the needs and
desires of users and pre-emptively take action on
their behalf. Perhaps most importantly, however, is
that their psychological programming is specifically
based on universal human modes of thought and an
understanding and support of transhuman goals
and interests. This is part of an initiative to engineer
so-called “friendly AIs,” who are programmed with
sympathy towards transhumanity and all life and seek
out their best interests.
   In most societies, basic AIs are considered “things”
or property rather than people and are accorded no
special rights.

MUSES
Muses are a specific type of AI designed to function
as a personal aide and companion. Most people in
Eclipse Phase have grown up with a muse at their
virtual side. Muses tend to have a bit more personality
and psychological programming than standard AIs and
over time they build up an extensive database of their
user's preferences, likes and dislikes, and personality
quirks so that they may more effectively be of service
and anticipate needs. Muses generally have names
and reside within the character's mesh inserts or ecto,
where they can manage the character's personal area
network, communications, data queries, and so on.

AGIS
AGIs are complete and fully operational digital con-
sciousnesses, self-aware and capable of intelligent
action at the same level as any transhuman. Most have
full autonomy and the capacity for self-improvement
by a processing similar to learning—a slow optimi-
zation and expansion of their code that features
programmed limitations to prevent it from achiev-
ing the self-upgrading capabilities of seed AIs. They
have more fully-rounded personalities and emotional/
empathic abilities than standard AIs, due in part to
a development process where they are literally raised
within a VR simulation analogous to the rearing of
transhuman children, and so are more fully socialized.
As a result, they have a fairly human outlook, though
some deviation is to be expected, and sometimes is
apparent in great degrees. Despite this attempt to hu-
manize AGIs, they do not have the same evolutionary
and biological origins that transhumans have, and so
their social responses, behavior, and goals are some-
times off-mark or decidedly different.
  AGIs bear the social stigma of their non-biological
origin and are often met with bias and mistrust. Some
habitats have even outlawed AGIs or subject them to
