WHAT YOUR MUSE
CAN DO FOR YOU
- Make Research Tests to find information for you.
- Scan newsfeeds and mesh updates for keyword alerts.
- Monitor your mesh inserts/ecto/PAN and slaved devices
  for intrusion.
- Launch countermeasures against intruders.
- Teleoperate and command robots.
- Monitor your Rep score and alert you to drastic changes.
- Automatically provide feedback for other people's
  Rep scores.
- Run audio input through an online, real-time language
  translation system.
- Put you in privacy mode and/or proactively stealth your
  wireless signal.
- Falsify/fluctuate your mesh ID.
- Track people for you.
- Anticipate your needs and act accordingly, pre-empting
  your requests.                                         ■



  strict restrictions, forcing such infolife to hide their
  true natures or illegally darkcast to enter habitats or
  stations. AGI mind programming emulates transhu-
  man brain patterns sufficiently well that they can be
  sleeved into biomorphs if they choose.

  SEED AI
  Due to the capability for unlimited self-upgrading,
  seed AIs have the capacity to grow into god-like
  digital entities far beyond the level of transhumans
  or AGIs. They require massive processing power and
  are always increasing in complexity due to a continual
  metamorphosis of their code. Seed AIs are too com-
  plex to be downloaded into a physical morph, even
  a synthetic one. Even their forks require impressive
  processing environments, so doing so is rare. In fact,
  most seed AIs require the capacities of hard-wired
  networks to survive.
    The only seed AIs known to the public are the
  infamous TITANs who are widely regarded as being
  responsible for the Fall. In truth, the TITANs were
  not the first seed AIs and will probably not be the last.
  There are no publicly known TITANs (or other seed
  AIs) currently residing in the solar system, despite
  circulating rumors of damaged TITANs who were left
  behind on Earth, speculated TITAN activity under the
  clouds of Venus, or whispers of new seed AIs hidden
  away in secret networks on the edges of the system.

  TRANSHUMAN INFOMORPHS
  For thousands of infugees, embodying a digital form
  is their only choice. Some of these are locked away
  in mesh-separated virtual holding areas or even inac-
  tive storage, locked up by habitats who didn't have
   NON-STANDARD AIS
   AND AGIS
   Not all AIs and AGIs were programmed and de
   signed to adhere to human modes of thought
   and interests. Such creations are illegal in some
   jurisdictions, as they are considered a potential
   threat. Several hypercorps and other groups have
   initiated research into this field, however, with
   varying results. In some cases these digital minds
   are so different from human mindsets that com
   munication is is impossible. In others, enough
   crossover exists to allow limited communication
   but such entities are invariably quite strange.
      Rumors persist that some AIs began their
   life as transhuman backups or forks, who were
   then heavily edited and pruned down to AI
   level intelligences.                            ■



enough resources to handle them. Others are impris-
oned inside simulspaces, killing time in whatever way
they choose until an opportunity to resleeve comes
their way. Quite a few are free to roam the mesh, in-
teracting with physically-sleeved transhumans, keep-
ing up with current events, and sometimes even form-
ing activist political blocs to campaign for infomorph
rights or interests. Still others find or are forced into
virtual careers, slaving away in the digital sweatshops
of hypercorps or criminal syndicates. A few find com-
panions who are willing to bring them along in their
ghostrider module and become an integral part of
their lives, much like a muse.
   Some transhumans willingly choose the infomorph
lifestyle, either for hedonism (custom simulspace and
VR games until the end of time), escapism (loss of a
loved ones leads them to write off physical concerns
for awhile), freedom (go anywhere the mesh takes
you—some have even beamed copies of themselves to
far distant solar systems, hoping someone or something
will receive their signal when they arrive), experimen-
tation (forking and merging, running simulations, and
weirder things), or because it is ensured immortality.



EVERYDAY MESH MECHANICS
Everyone (and everything) is meshed in Eclipse Phase.
The following rules and concerns apply to standard
mesh use. Note that various mesh-related terms are
explained, along with other Eclipse Phase concepts,
under Terminology, p. 25.

MESH INTERFACE
Characters have a choice of which interface to use, the
entoptic interface of basic mesh inserts or the haptic
interface of an ecto.
  The basic mesh inserts used by most users allows
them to interact with AR, VR, XP, and the mesh at the
