speed of thought. This is the default method of mesh
use and suffers no modifiers. They are, however, more
prone to visual and operative impairments (virtual il-
lusions, denial-of-service effects) when hacked.
  Characters who use the haptic interface of an ecto,
however, suffer a slight delay on their mesh activities
due to manual toggling, physical controls, and physi-
cal interaction with virtual controls. In game terms,
the use of haptics imposes a –10 skill modifier to
all mesh tests where timing is rushed (particularly
combat and or any sort of mesh use under pressure).
Additionally, increase the timeframe for mesh-based
Task Actions by +25% when interfacing via haptics.
On the positive side, ectos can be easily removed and
discarded if compromised—for this reason, many
hackers and security-conscious users use an ecto in
addition to their mesh inserts, routing all high-risk
traffic through the ecto as an extra line of defense.

MESH ID
Every mesh user (and, in fact, every device) has a
unique code called their mesh ID. This ID distin-
guishes them from all other users and devices, and is
the mechanism by which others can find them online,
like a combination phone number, email address, and
screen name. Mesh IDs are used in almost all online in-
teractions, which are often logged, meaning that your
activities online leave a datatrail that can be tracked
(p. 251). Fortunately for Firewall sentinels and others
who value their privacy, their are ways around this
(see Privacy and Anonymity, p. 252). AIs, AGIs, and
infomorphs also each have their own unique mesh ID.

ACCOUNTS AND ACCESS PRIVILEGES
Devices, networks (such as PANs, VPNs, and hard-
wired networks), and services require that every user
that accesses them does so with an account. The
account serves to identify that particular user, is
linked to their mesh ID, and determines what access
privileges they have on that system. There are four
types of accounts: public, user, security, and admin.

PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
Public accounts are used for systems that allow
access (or access to parts of their system) to anyone




  ELITE EXPLOITS
  The mesh gear quality rules allow for players
  and gamemasters to make a distinction between
  software tools, separating the open-source,
  stock-repertoire exploit tools of amateur hackers
  from cutting-edge military-grade penetration
  wares. While many characters will simply buy or
  otherwise acquire such programs, a hacker with
  the do-it-yourself ethic is likely going to want
  to design their own personalized applications,
  based on their playbook of closely-guarded in-
  trusion/counterintrusion methods.
     To reflect the efforts a hacker character makes
  by designing, coding, and modifying their own
  customized personal arsenals, they may make a
  Task Action Programming Test with timeframe
  of 2 weeks. If they succeed, they upgrade one
  of their software tools by one level of quality
  (i.e., from +0 to +10). Multiple Programming
  Tests can be made to enhance a program, but for
  each level add the target modifier as a negative
  modifier to the test (so upgrading a +0 suite to
  +10 is a –10 modifier on the Programming Test).
     Similarly, at the gamemaster's discretion, soft-
  ware tools—particularly exploits—may degrade
  in quality over time, reflecting that they have
  become outdated. As a general rule, such pro-
  grams should degrade in quality about once
  every 3 months.                                 ■
