on the mesh. Public accounts do not require any sort
of authentication or login process, the user's mesh ID
is enough. These accounts are used to provide access
to any sort of data that is considered public: mesh
sites, forums, public archives, open databases, social
network profiles, etc. Public accounts usually have
the ability to read and download data, and some-
times to write data (forum comments, for example),
but little else.

USER ACCOUNTS
User accounts are the most common accounts. User
accounts require some form of authentication (p. 253)
to access the device, network, or service. Each user ac-
count has specific access privileges allotted to it, which
are tasks the user is allowed to perform on that system.
For example, most users are allowed to upload and
download data, change basic content, and use the
standard features of the system in question. They are
not, however, usually allowed to alter security features,
add new accounts, or do anything that might impact
the security or functioning of the system. As some sys-
tems are more restrictive than others, the gamemaster
decides what privileges each user account provides.

SECURITY ACCOUNTS
Security accounts are intended for users that need
greater rights and privileges than standard users, but
who don't need control over the entire system, such
as security hackers and muses. Security access rights
usually allow for reading logs, commanding security
features, adding/deleting accounts, altering the data of
other users, and so on.

ADMIN ACCOUNTS
Admin accounts provide complete control over the
system. Characters with admin rights can do every-
thing security accounts can, plus they can shut down/
reboot the system, alter access rights of other users,
view and edit all log files and statistics, and stop or
start any software available on the system.

MESH GEAR QUALITY
Not all gear is created equal, and this is especially true
of computers and software, where new innovations
are made on a daily basis. Keeping up-to-date with
the last specs isn't too difficult, but on occasion the


                                          MESH GEA
MODIFIER SOFTWARE/HARDWARE
   –30      Bashed-up devices, no-longer-supported software, re
   –20      Malfunctioning/inferior devices, buggy software, pre-
   –10      Outdated and low quality systems
    0       Standard ectos, mesh inserts, and software
   +10      High-quality goods, standard security-grade products
   +20      Next-generation devices, advanced software
   +30      Newly-developed, state-of-the-art, top-of-the-line te
  >+30      TITANs and/or alien technology
   characters will get their hands on some old relic or
   find themselves in secluded or decrepit places with
   local systems and gear that aren't up to date. Likewise,
   they may acquire some cutting-edge gear straight
   from the labs or may run up against a state-of-the-art
   installation with next-generation defenses. To reflect
   this, mesh tests can be modified according to the state
   of the hardware or software being used, as noted on
   the Mesh Gear Modifiers table
  .
   COMPUTER CAPABILITIES
   Computerized electronics can be broken down into
   three simple categories: peripherals, personal comput-
   ers, and servers. In game terms, all are collectively
   referred to as devices.

   PERIPHERALS
   Peripherals are micro-computerized devices that don't
   need the full processing power and storage capacity of
   a personal computer, but benefit from online network-
   ing and other computerized functions. Peripherals may
   run software, but the gamemaster may decide that too
   many programs (10+) will degrade the system's perfor-
   mance. AIs and infomorphs are incapable of running
   on peripherals, though they may access them. Peripher-
   als only have public and user accounts (users accounts
   include security and admin functions; see p. 247).
     Common peripherals include: spimes, appliances, most
   cybernetic implants, individual sensors, and weapons.

   PERSONAL COMPUTERS
   Personal computers account for a wide range of com-
   puter types, but essentially account for anything that
   has the capabilities evolved from generations and gen-
   erations of personal computers to meet an everyday
   user's needs. Most personal computers are portable
   and tailored for use by multiple users at a time. Per-
   sonal computers may run one AI or infomorph at a
   time. They may not run simulspace programs.
     Common personal computers include: mesh inserts,
   ectos, and vehicles.

   SERVERS
   Servers have much greater processing power and
   data management capabilities than personal comput-
   ers. They are capable of handling hundreds of users,
   multiple AIs and infomorphs, and they may run


MODIFIERS

rom Earth or the early expansion into space
echnology




logy
