or bumped for higher-priority items, the gamemaster
can increase this time at their discretion. If the research
involves correlation and fine-tuning the search param-
eters based on data accumulated from different locals,
the timeframe may be exponentially increased due to
the need for back-and-forth interaction.
   If the character is simply communicating with or
accessing non-local networks, an appropriate time lag
must be introduced between communications and ac-
tions. The effects of this lag are largely up to the game-
master, as fitting current distances and other factors.

ACCESSING MULTIPLE DEVICES
Meshed characters may connect to and interact with
numerous devices, networks, and services simulta-
neously. There is no penalty for doing this, but the
character may only focus on one system at a time. In
other words, you may only interact with one system
at a time, though you may also switch between them
freely, even within the same Action Phase. You could,
for example, spend several Quick Actions to send a
message with your ecto, tell your spime oven at home
to start cooking dinner, and look up a friend's updated
profile on a social network. You may not, however,
hack into two separate systems simultaneously.
   Note that you may send the same command to
multiple slaved devices or teleoperated drones with
the same Quick Action, as noted above.



ONLINE RESEARCH
The Research skill (p. 184) represents a character's
ability to track down information in the mesh. Such
information includes any type of digitized data: text,
pictures, vids, XP, sensor feeds, raw data, software, etc.
This data is culled from all manner of sources: blogs,
archives, databases, directories, social networks, rep
networks, online services, forums, chat rooms, torrent
caches, and regular mesh sites of all kinds. Research
is conducted using various public and private search
engines, both general and specialized, as well as data
indices and search AIs.
   Research has other uses as well. Hackers use it
when looking for specific information on a network or
device on which they have intruded. Likewise, since
everyone inevitably uses and interacts with the mesh,
Research skill is also a way to identify, backtrack, and/
or gather information on people as long as they have
not hidden their identity, worked anonymously, or
covered their identity with a shroud of disinformation.

SEARCH CHALLENGES
Due to the sheer amount of data available, find-
ing what you're looking for may sometimes seem a
daunting task. Thankfully, information is fairly well
organized, thanks to the hard work of “spider” AIs
that cruise the mesh and constantly update data and
search indices. Additionally, information on the mesh
is tagged with semantics, meaning that it's presented
with code that allows a machine to understand the
context of that information as well as a human reader
would. This helps AIs and search software correlate
data more efficiently. So finding the data is usually not
as difficult as analyzing it and understanding it. Find-
ing specialized or hidden info or correlating data from
multiple sources is usually the real challenge.
  Perhaps a larger issue is the amount of incorrect data
and misinformation online. Some data is simply wrong
(mistakes happen) or outdated, but the nature of the
mesh means that such things can linger on for years
and even propagate far and wide as they are circulated
without fact-checking. Likewise, given the amount of



  SEARCH CAPABILITIES
  Online research in Eclipse Phase is not the same
  as just googling something. Here are five ways in
  which it is vastly improved:
     Pattern Recognition: Biometrics and other forms
  of pattern recognition are efficient and intelligent.
  It is not only possible to run image recognition
  searches (in real-time, via all available spimes
  and sensor feeds), but to search for patterns such
  as gait, sounds, colors, emotive displays, traffic,
  crowd movement, etc. Kinesics and behavioral
  analysis even allow sensor searches for people
  exhibiting certain behavioral patterns, such as sus-
  picious loitering, nervousness, or agitation.
     Metadata: Information and files online come
  with hidden data about their creation, alteration,
  and access. A photo's metadata, for example,
  will note what gear it was taken on, who took
  it, when, and where, as well as who accessed it
  online, though such metadata may be easily
  scrubbed or anonymized.
     Data Mash-Ups: The combination of abundant
  computing, archived data, and ubiquitous public
  sensors enable intriguing correlations to be
  drawn from data that is mined and collated. In
  the midst of a habitat emergency such as a ter-
  rorist bombing, for example, the ID of everyone
  in the vicinity could be scanned, compared to
  data archives to separate out those who have a
  history of being in the vicinity at that particular
  time, with those remaining checked against
  databases of criminal/suspect history and their
  recorded actions analyzed for unusual behavior.
     Translation: Real-time translation of audio and
  video is available from open source translation bots.
     Forecasting: A significant percentage of what
  people do on any day or in response to certain situ-
  ations conforms to routines, enabling easy behav-
  ioral prediction. Muses take advantage of this to
  anticipate needs and provide whatever is desired
  at the right moment and in the right context. The
  same logic applies to actions by groups of people,
  such as economics and social discourse, making pre-
  dictions markets a big deal in the inner system. ■
