transparency in modern society, some entities actively
engage in disinformation spreading in order to clut-
ter the mesh with enough falsehoods that the truth is
hidden. Two factors help to combat this, the first being
that data sources themselves have their own reputation
scores, so that untrustworthy or disreputable sources
can be identified and ranked lower in search results.
Second, many archives take advantage of crowdsourc-
ing—that is, harnessing the collaborative power of
mesh users (and their muses) everywhere—to verify
data integrity so that these sites are dynamic and
self-correcting.

HANDLING SEARCHES
Online research is often a crucial element of Eclipse
Phase scenarios, as characters take to the mesh to
research backgrounds and uncover clues. The follow-
ing suggestions present a method of handling research
that does not rely solely on dice rolls and integrates it
with the flow of the plot.
   First, common and inconsequential information
should be immediately available without requiring
a roll at all. Most characters rely on their muses to
handle searches for them, passing on the results while
the character focuses on other things.
   For searches that are more detailed, difficult, or
central to the plot, a Research Test should be called
for (made either by the character or their muse).
This test indicates the process of finding links to
and/or accumulating all data that may in fact be
relevant to the search topic. This test should be
modified as appropriate to the obscurity of the topic,
ranging from +30 for common and public topics
to –30 for obscure or unusual intel. This initial
search has a timeframe of 1 minute. If successful, it
turns up enough data to give the character a basic
overview, perhaps with cursory details. The game-
master should use the MoS to determine the depth
of the data provided on this initial excursion, with
an Excellent Success providing some bonus details.
Similarly, a Severe Failure (MoF 30+) may result in
the character working with data that is incorrect or
intentionally misleading.
   The next step is not so much accumulating links
and data as it is analyzing and understanding the in-
formation acquired. This requires another Research
Test, again modified by the obscurity of the topic. If
the gamemaster allows it, complementary skills (p.
173) may apply to this test, providing bonus modi-
fiers (for example, an understanding of Academics:
Chemistry would help research the effects of a
strange drug). Muses may also perform this task,
though their skills are typically inferior. As above,
success determines the quality and depth of the
analysis, with an Excellent Success providing the full
story and potential related issues and a Severe Fail-
ure marking completely incorrect assumptions. The
timeframe for this phase of research largely depends
on two factors: the amount of data being analyzed
and the importance to the storyline. Gamemasters
