need to carefully measure out their distribution of
intel and clues to players. Give them too much too
soon, and they may spoil the plot. Fail to give them
enough, and they may get frustrated or pursue dead
ends. Timing is everything.

REAL-TIME SEARCHES
Characters may also set up ongoing mesh scans that will
alert them if any relevant information comes up new or
updated, or is somehow changed. This is a task usually
assigned to muses for continuous oversight. Whenever
such data arises, the gamemaster secretly makes a Re-
search Test, modified by the obscurity of the topic. If
successful, the update is noted. If not, it is missed, though
the gamemaster may allow another test if and when the
topic reaches a wider range of circulation or interest.

HIDDEN DATA
It is important to remember that not everything can
be found online. Some data may only be acquired (or
may be more easily gotten) by asking the right people
(see Networking, p. 286). Information that is consid-
ered private, secret, or proprietary will likely be stored
away behind VPN firewalls, in off-mesh hardwired
networks, or in private and commercial archives. This
would require the character to gain access to such
networks in order to get the data they need (assuming
they even know where to look).
   It's worth noting that some entities send out AIs
into the mesh with the intent of finding and erasing
data they'd rather hide, even if this requires hacking
into systems to alter such information.



SCANNING, TRACKING,
AND MONITORING
Most users leave traces of their physical and digital
presence all throughout the mesh. Accounts they access,
devices with which they interact, services they use, ent-
optics they perceive—all of these keep logs of the event,
and some of these records are public. Simply passing
nearby some devices is enough to leave a trail, as near-
field radio interactions are often logged. This electronic
datatrail can be used to track a user, both to ascertain
their physical location or to note their online activities.

WIRELESS SCANNING
To interface with a wireless device or network, whether
to establish a connection or for other purposes, the
target device/network must be located first. To locate
an active node, it's wireless radio transmissions must be
detected. Most wireless devices automatically scan for
other devices in range (see Radio and Sensor Ranges, p.
299) as a matter of course, so no test is required. This
means that it's trivial for any character to pull up a
list of the wireless devices and networks around them,
along with associated mesh IDs. Likewise, a muse or
device can be instructed to alert the user when a new
signal (or a specific user) comes into range.
   Detecting stealth signals (p. 252), however, is a bit
more challenging. To detect a stealthed signal, the scan-
ning party must actively search for such signals, taking
a Complex Action and making an Interfacing Test with
a –30 modifier. If successful, they detect the hidden emis-
sions. If the character aiming for stealth engages in active
countermeasures, also requiring a Complex Action, then
an Opposed Interfacing Test is called for (with the –30
modifier still applying to the scanning party).
   For covert devices that are only transmitting in
short bursts, wireless detection is only possible during
the short period the burst transmission is being made.

PHYSICAL TRACKING
Many users willingly allow themselves to be physically
tracked via the mesh. To them, this is a useful feature—
it allows their friends to find them, their loved ones to
know where they are, and for authorities to come to
their aid in the event of some emergency. Finding their
location is simply a matter of looking them up in the
local directory, no test required (assuming you know
who they are). Mesh positioning is accurate to within
5 meters. Once located, the position of the target can
be monitored as they move as long as they maintain
an active wireless connection to the mesh.

TRACKING BY MESH ID
An unknown user's physical location can also be
tracked via their online mesh activity—or more spe-
cifically, by their mesh ID (p. 246). Network security
will often trace intruders this way and then dispatch
security squads to bring them in. To track an unknown
user by their mesh ID alone requires a Research Test.
If successful, they have been tracked to their current
physical location (if still online) or last point of in-
teraction with the mesh. If the character is in privacy
mode (p. 252), a –30 modifier applies.

TRACKING BY BIOMETRICS
Given the existence of so many spimes and public
cameras and sensors, people may also be tracked by
their facial profile alone using facial recognition soft-
ware. This software scans accessible video feeds and
attempts to match it to a photo of the target. Given
the sheer volume of cameras, however, and the typical
range of false-positives and false-negatives, finding
the target often boils down to luck. Priority can be
given to cameras monitoring major thoroughfares, to
narrow the search, but this risks missing the target if
they avoid heavy traffic areas. The success of searches
of this nature is best left to gamemaster fiat, but a
Research Test can also be called for, modified ap-
propriately by the range of the area being watched,
whenever there is a chance the target may be spotted.
  Other biometric signatures may also be used for
tracking this way, though these are usually less avail-
able than cameras: thermal signatures (requires infra-
red cameras), walking gait, scent (requires olfactory
sensors), DNA (requires DNA scanners), etc. Each
biometric scan requires a separate type of software.
