DIGITAL ACTIVITY TRACKING
Tracking someone's online activities (meshbrowsing,
entoptic interactions, use of services, messaging, etc.)
is slightly more difficult, depending on what exactly
you're after. Gathering information on a user's public
mesh activities—social network profiles, public
forums posts, public lifelogging, etc.—is handled just
like standard online research (p. 249).

TRACKING BY MESH ID
A more investigate search can attempt to use the
target's mesh ID (p. 246), using it as a sort of digital
fingerprint to look up where else they've been online.
This primarily involves checking access/transaction
logs, which are not always publicly accessible. This
sort of search requires a Research Test, handled as a
Task Action with a timeframe of 1 hour.

SNIFFING
Wireless radio traffic is broadcast through the air (or
space), meaning that it can be intercepted by other wire-
less devices. “Sniffing” involves the capture and analysis
of data traffic flowing through the wireless mesh.
   To eavesdrop on wireless communications, you need
a sniffer program (p. 331) and you must be within
radio range (p. 299) of the target (alternately, you can
access a device that is within radio range of the target,
and sniff from that location). To capture the informa-
tion you must succeed in an Infosec Test. If successful,
you capture data traffic from any targeted devices in
range. Note that sniffing does not work on encrypted
traffic (including VPNs and anything else using public
key cryptography) as the results are gibberish. Quan-
tum encrypted communications cannot be sniffed.
   Once you have the data, finding the information
you're looking for can be a challenge. Handle this as
a standard Research Test (p. 245).

REMOTE SNIFFING VIA MESH ID
Finally, a mesh ID may also be actively monitored
to see what mesh activity it engages in. This requires
special sniffer software (p. 331) and a Research Test.
If successful, the monitoring will provide information
on that user's public mesh activities (how much is
determined by the gamemaster and the MoS), such
as which sites they access, who they message, etc. It
will not, however, uncover anything that is encrypted
(unless the encryption is broken) or anything that
takes place on a VPN (unless the VPN is hacked first),
though it will show that encrypted communications
and/or VPN use are taking place.



PRIVACY AND ANONYMIZATION
Given how easily mesh activities are monitored, many
users pursue privacy and anonymization options.

PRIVACY MODE
Characters who go into privacy mode hide their online
presence and activities from others to a limited degree.
The exact settings are adjustable, but typically involve
masking their social profiles and presence to other
users in the immediate vicinity, like having an unlisted
phone number. Privacy mode can also be used to limit
the use of mesh IDs and other data in access and
transaction logs, applying a –30 modifier to attempts
to research or track them by their online activity.

STEALTHED SIGNALS
Another tactic that can be taken for privacy is to
stealth the wireless radio signals you emit. This
method uses a combination of spread-spectrum signals,
frequency hopping, and modulation to make your
radio transmissions harder to detect with scanning (p.
251). Stealthing your signals is either a passive activity
(Automatic Action, –30 modifier on Interface Tests to
locate the signal) or an active one (Complex Action,
requires an Opposed Test to locate).

ANONYMIZATION
Anonymization takes the issue of privacy a bit further.
The user does not just hide their mesh ID, but they
actively use false mesh IDs and take other measures to
reroute and obfuscate their datatrail. Anonymization
is a necessity both for clandestine operatives and those
engaging in illicit mesh activities.

FALSE MESH IDS
The easiest method of making mesh activities anony-
mous is to set your muse to supply false mesh IDs in
online transactions. Though illegal in many jurisdic-
tions, this is an easy task for any character or muse to
do. Multiple false IDs are used, making it extremely dif-
ficult for anyone to tie all of the user's activities together.
   This method makes it extremely difficult for anyone
to track the user's online actions. Someone attempting
to track the character via these false mesh IDs must
beat them in an Opposed Test, pitting their Research
skill with a –30 modifier against the character's (or
more likely, their muse's) Infosec skill. This is a Task
Action with a base timeframe of 1 hour, adjusted
higher according to the amount of activity they hope
to track. If successful, the tracker manages to dig
together enough correlating evidence and records of
false IDs to get a picture of the character's activities
(how thorough this picture is depends on their MoS).
If the fail, the anonymous character has effectively
camouflaged themselves in the mesh.
   Actively monitoring a character who is fluctuating
their mesh ID with a sniffer program, or physically
tracking them via the mesh, is next to impossible, as
the continual shifting of IDs and intentional decoys
make it too difficult to keep up.

ANONYMOUS ACCOUNT SERVICES
A number of people—not just criminals, hackers, and
secret agents—have an interest in keeping some of
their affairs anonymous. To meet this demand, various
online service vendors offer anonymous accounts for
messaging and credit transfers. Some of these vendors
