are legit business (in places where it is legal), some
are criminals operating illegally, others are hacktivists
promoting the privacy meme, and still others are hy-
percorps or other organizations offering such services
internally to their own staff/membership.
   The interaction between the vendor and user is
encrypted and anonymous, with no logs kept, so even
if the vendor's servers are hacked, an intruder will
not find any leads. While some anonymous accounts
are established for regular use, the truly paranoid use
(multiple) one-time accounts for maximum security.
One-time accounts are used for a single message (in-
coming or outgoing) or credit transaction, and then
are securely erased.
   Tracking an anonymous account is a practical
impossibility, and something that only an extremely
resourceful organization employing a systematic and
expensive effort could attempt.

DISPOSABLE ECTOS
Another option for those seeking privacy and se-
curity is to simply use disposable ectos. Using this
method, all activity is routed through a specific ecto
(using its mesh ID), the ecto is used for a limited
period (until it gets hot), and then it is simply dis-
carded or destroyed.



MESH SECURITY
Given the lessons of the Fall and the very real risk still
posed by hackers, virii, and similar threats, network
security is taken extremely seriously in Eclipse Phase.
Four methods are typically used: authentication, fire-
walls, active monitoring, and encryption.

AUTHENTICATION
Most devices, networks (PANs, VPNs, etc.), and ser-
vices require some kind of authentication (a process
by which a system determines whether the claimed
identity of a user is genuine) before they grant an ac-
count and access privileges (p. 246) to a user. There
are several different ways for a system to authenticate
a user. Some are more reliable and secure than others,
but for the most part, the more secure the method, the
higher the operational expenses.
   Account: If you have access to an account on one
system, this may give you automatic access to related
systems or subsystems. This is typical of slaved devices
(p. 248), where access to the master automatically
grants you access to slaves.
   Mesh ID: Some systems accept mesh IDs as authen-
tication. This is extremely common with most public
systems, which merely log the mesh ID of any user
that wishes access. Other systems will only allow
access to specific mesh IDs, but these are vulnerable
to spoofing (p. 255).
   Passcode: This is a simple string of alphanumeric
characters or logographic symbols, submitted in an
encrypted format. Anyone with the passcode can
access the account.
   Biometric Scan: This calls for a scan of one or more
of the user's biometric signatures (fingerprint, palm
print, retinal scan, DNA sample, etc.). Popular before
the Fall, such systems have fallen out of use as they
are impractical with synthmorphs or users that fre-
quently resleeve.
   Passkey: Passkey systems call for some of encrypted
code that is either hardwired into a physical device
(that is either implanted or physically jacked into
an ecto) or extracted from specialized software. Ad-
vanced passkeys combine hardwired encryption with
physical nanotech etching to create a unique key. To
access such systems, the passkey must either be ac-
quired or somehow spoofed.
   Ego Scan: This system authenticates the user's ego
ID (p. 279).
   Quantum Key: Quantum key systems rely on the un-
breakable encryption of quantum cryptography (p. 254).

FIREWALLS
Firewalls are software programs (sometimes hard-
wired into a device) that intercept and inspect all traf-
fic to and from a protected network or device. Traffic
that meets specified criteria that designates it as safe
is passed through, whereas all other traffic is blocked.
In Eclipse Phase, every network and device can be
assumed to have a firewall by default. Firewalls are
the main obstacle that an intruder must overcome, as
discussed under Intrusion Tests, p. 255.
   Like other gear, firewalls come in varying quality
levels and so may apply modifiers to certain tests.

ACTIVE MONITORING
Instead of relying on authentication and firewalls
alone, secure systems are actively monitored by a se-
curity hacker or a muse. These digital security guards
inspect network traffic using a number of software
tools and applications that flag conspicuous events.
Active surveillance makes intrusions more difficult,
since the interloper must beat the monitoring hacker/
AI in an Opposed Test (see Intrusion, p. 254). Active
monitoring also includes monitoring any devices
slaved to the monitored system.
   Characters may actively monitor their own PANs if
they so choose, though this requires a moderate level
of attention (count as a Quick Action). It is far more
common for a muse to actively guard a user's PAN.

ENCRYPTION
Encryption is an exceptionally effective extra layer of
security. There are two types of encryption commonly
used in Eclipse Phase: public key cryptosystems and
quantum cryptography.

PUBLIC KEY CRYPTO
In public key cryptosystems, two keys are generated
by the user, a public key and a secret key. The public
key is used to encrypt messages to that user, and is
made freely available. When messages are encrypted
using that public key, only the secret key—controlled
