by the user—can decrypt them. Public key crypto is
widely used both for encrypting data traffic between
two users/networks/devices and for encrypting
files. Due to the strength of the public key system
algorithms, such crypto is essentially unbreakable
without a quantum computer (see Quantum Code-
breaking, p. 254).

QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY
Quantum key distribution systems use quantum me-
chanics to enable secure communications between two
parties by generating a quantum key. The major advan-
tage of transmitting information in quantum states is
that the system itself instantly detects eavesdropping
attempts as quantum systems are disturbed by any sort
of external interference. In practical terms, this means
that quantum encrypted data transfers are unbreakable
and attempts to intercept automatically fail. Note that
quantum crypto doesn't work for basic file encryption,
its only use is in protecting communication channels.
   While quantum key systems have an advantage over
public key systems, they are both more expensive and
less practical. In order to generate a quantum key,
the two communications devices must be entangled
together on a quantum level, in the same location,
and then separated. So quantum key encrypted
communications channels require some setup effort,
especially if long distances are involved. Since the
implementation of quantum cryptographic protocols
is an extraordinary expense, it is usually only adopted
for major high-security communications links.

BREAKING ENCRYPTION
What this means is that encrypted communications
lines and files are very safe if using public key systems,
and that data transfers are absolutely safe if using
quantum crypto. Gamemasters should take note, how-
ever: while this may be useful to player characters, it
may also hinder them. If the characters need to get at
something that is encrypted, they're going to need to
figure out some way to get the secret key's passcode.
Common methods include the old standbys of bribery,
blackmail, threats, and torture. Other options involve
espionage or social engineering to somehow acquire
the passcode. Hackers could also find some other
method to compromise the system and gain inside
access, bypassing the encryption entirely.

QUANTUM CODEBREAKING
As noted above, quantum computers can also be used
to break public key encryption. This requires an Infosec
Task Action Test with a +30 modifier and a timeframe
of 1 week (once started, the quantum computer finishes
the job on its own; the user does not need to provide
constant oversight). Gamemasters should feel free to
modify this timeframe as fits the needs of their game.
Note that quantum computers cannot break quantum-
encrypted communications, only encrypted files.



INTRUSION
The art of intrusion lies in penetrating a device's secu-
rity. The best methods involve infiltrating a system qui-
etly, without catching a watchdog's attention, by using
exploits—code glitches, flawed security protocols—to
create a path circumventing the target's defenses. When
called for, however, a hacker can toss aside pretenses
and attempt to brute-force their way in.

PRECONDITIONS
In order to hack a device, the hacker needs to establish
a direct connection to the target computer system. If
the hacker is making a direct wireless connection to
the target, the target system must be wireless-capable
and within range (p. 299), and the hacker must know
the target is there (see Wireless Scanning, p. 251). If
the system is hard-wired, the hacker must physically
jack in by using a regular jacking port or somehow
tapping into a cable that carries the network's data
traffic. If the hacker is accessing the target through the
