mesh, the target system must be online and the hacker
must know it's mesh ID (p. 246) or otherwise be able
to track it down (p. 251).

CIRCUMVENTING AUTHENTICATION
Rather than hacking in, an intruder can try to sub-
vert the authentication system used to vet legitimate
users. The easiest manner of doing this is to somehow
acquire the passcode, passkey, or whatever authentica-
tion method the target uses (p. 253). With this in hand,
no test is necessary to access the system; the hacker
simply logs in just like a legitimate user and has all of
the normal access privileges of that user.
   Lacking a passcode, the hacker can try to subvert
the authentication system in one of two other ways:
spoofing or forgery.

SPOOFING AUTHENTICATION
Using this method, the hacker attempts to disguise
their signals as coming from the legitimate, authen-
ticated user, rather than from themself. If successful,
the system is fooled by this masquerade, accepting the
hacker's commands and activity as if they came from
a legitimate user. Spoofing is more difficult to pull off,
but is very effective when it works.
   To spoof a legitimate user, the hacker must be using
both sniffer and spoofing software (p. 331). The
hacker must then monitor a connection between the
legitimate user and the target system, and succeed
in an Infosec Test to sniff the traffic between them
(p. 252). Apply a –20 modifier if the user has secu-
rity account privileges, –30 if they have admin rights
(p. 247). If the connection is encrypted, this will fail
unless the hacker has the encryption key.
   Armed with this data, the hacker then uses it to
disguise their signals. This requires an Infosec Test,
modified by the quality of the system's firewall and
the hacker's spoofing program. If successful, com-
munications sent by the hacker are treated as coming
from the legitimate user.

FORGING AUTHENTICATION
Biometric and passkey systems used for authentication
(p. 253) can potentially be forged hackers who are
able to get a look at the originals. The means and tech-
niques for doing so differ, and are beyond the scope of
this book, but successfully forging such systems would
allow a hacker to log in as the legitimate user.




 THE HACKING SEQUENC
 1. Defeat the Firewall
 2. Bypass Active Security
    a. Hacker Wins with Excellent Success, Defender
    b. Hacker Succeeds, Defender Fails
    c. Both Succeed
    d. Defender Succeeds, Hacker Fails
     INTRUSION TESTS
     Hacking into a node is a time-consuming task. The
     target system must be carefully analyzed and probed
     for weaknesses, without alerting its defenses. Depend-
     ing on the type of security in place, more than one test
     may be called for.
       Hackers require special exploit software (p. 331) to
     take advantage of security holes, but software does
     not a hacker make. What really counts is Infosec skill
     (p. 180), which is the ability to use, modify, and im-
     provise exploits to their full advantage.

     DEFEATING THE FIREWALL
     Lacking a passcode, the hacker must break in the old-
     fashioned way: discreetly scanning the target, look for
     weaknesses, and take advantage of them. In this case
     the hacker takes their exploit software and makes an
     Infosec Test. This is handled as a Task Action with a
     timeframe of 10 minutes. Various modifiers may apply,
     such as the quality of the exploit software, the quality
     of the Firewall, or the alertness of the target system. The
     gamemaster may also modify the timeframe, shortening
     it to reflect systems that are cookie-cutter common with
     known security flaws or raising it as fitting for a top-of-
     the-line system with still-unreleased defenses.
        By default, a hacker trying to break in this way is
     pursuing standard user access rights (p. 247). If the
     hacker wishes to obtain security or admin privileges on
     the system, apply a –20 or –30 modifier, respectively.
         If the Infosec Test succeeds, the intruder has invaded
     the system without triggering any alarms. If the system is
     actively monitored (p. 253), they must now avoid detec-
     tion by that watchdog (see below). If there is no active
     monitor, the intruder gains the status of Covert (see In-
     truder Status, p. 256). If the intruder scored an Excellent
     Success, however, their status is Hidden (p. 256).
         Probing: Players may choose to take the time (p.
     116) when probing the target for weakness and ex-
     ploits. In fact, this is a common procedure when a
     hacker wants to ensure success.

     BYPASSING ACTIVE SECURITY
     If a system is also actively monitored (p. 253), the
     hacker must avoid detection. Treat this as a Variable
     Opposed Infosec Test between the intruder and the
     monitor. The outcome depends on both rolls:
        If only the intruder succeeds, the hacker has ac-
     cessed the node without the monitor or the system




E
          Infosec Task Action (10 minutes)
          Opposed Infosec Test
ls        Hidden status/+30 all tests (p. 256)
          Covert Status (p. 256)
          Spot Status/Passive Alert (p. 256)
          Locked status/Active Alert (p. 256)                  ■
