noticing. The hacker has acquired Covert status (p.
256). If the hacker scored an Excellent Success, their
status is Hidden (p. 256).
   If only the monitor succeeds, the hacking attempt
is spotted and the monitor may immediately lock the
hacker out of the system before they manage to fully
break in. The intruder may try again, but the monitor
will be vigilant for further intrusions.
   If both succeed, the intruder has gained access but
the monitor is aware that something strange is going
on. The hacker acquires Spotted status.
   If both fail, continue to make the same test on each
of the hacker's Action Phases, until one or both succeed.

INTRUDER STATUS
Intruder status is a simple way of measuring an
invader's situation when they are intruding upon
a system. This status has an impact on whether the
hacker has caught any attention or if they managed
to remain unobtrusive. Status is first determined when
the intruder access the system, though it may change
according to events.
  Note that intruder status is a separate matter from
account access privileges (p. 246). The latter represents
what a user can legally do on a system. The former
indicates how aware the system is of the hacker's true
nature as an intruder.

HIDDEN
An intruder with Hidden status has managed to silent-
ly sneak into the system without anyone noticing. The
system's security is totally unaware of their presence
and may not act against them. In this case, the hacker
is not using an account so much as they are exploit-
ing a flaw in the system that grants them a nebulous,
behind-the-scenes sort of presence in the system. The
hacker effectively has admin access rights, but does
not show up as an admin-level user in logs or other
statistics. Hidden characters receive a +30 modifier on
any efforts to subvert the system.

COVERT
An intruder with Covert status has accessed the
system in a manner that doesn't attract any unusual
attention. For all intents and purposes, they appear
to be a legitimate user with whatever access rights
they sought. Only extensive checking will turn up any
abnormalities. The system is aware of them, but does
not consider them a threat.

SPOTTED
Spotted status indicates that the system is aware of an
anomaly or intrusion but hasn't zeroed in on the in-
truder yet. The hacker appears to be a legitimate user
with whatever access rights they sought, but this will
not hold up under close scrutiny. The system goes on
passive alert (inflicting a –10 modifier to the hacker's
activities on that system) and may engage the hacker
with passive countermeasures (p. 257).
LOCKED
Locked status means that the intruder—including their
datatrail—has been pinned down by system security.
The hacker has access and account privileges, but they
have been flagged as an interloper. The system is on
active alert (inflicting a –20 modifier on the hacker's ac-
tions) and may launch active countermeasures (p. 257)
against the intruder.

CHANGING STATUS
An intruder's status is subject to change according to
their actions and the actions of the system.

UPGRADING STATUS
A hacker can attempt to improve their status in order
to better protect themself. This requires a Complex
Action and an Infosec Test. If the hacker has Spotted
status, this is an Opposed Test between monitor and
intruder. If the hacker wins and scores an Excellent
Success (MoS of 30+), they have upgraded their status
by one level (for example, from Covert to Hidden).
Intruders with Locked status may not upgrade.

ZEROING IN
A security hacker or muse that is actively monitoring
a system can take a Complex Action and attempt to
hone in on a Spotted intruder. An Opposed Infosec Test
is made between both parties. If the system's defender
wins, the hacker is downgraded to Locked status.

FAILING TESTS
Any time an intruder scores a Severe Failure (MoF
30+) on a test involving manipulating the system, they
are automatically downgraded one status level (from
Covert to Spotted, for example). If a critical failure
is rolled, they immediately give themselves away and
achieve Locked status.

BRUTE-FORCE HACKING
Sometimes a character simply doesn't have time to do
the job right, and they need to hack in now or never.
In this case the hacker engages the target system im-
mediately, head on, without taking any time to pre-
pare an attack. The hacker simply brings all of their
software exploit tools to bear, throwing them at the
target and hoping that one works. This is handled as
an Infosec Test, but as a Task Action with a timeframe
of 1 minute (20 Action Turns). The hacker receives
a +30 modifier on this test. Many hackers choose to
rush the job (see Task Actions, p. 120), in order to cut
this time even shorter.
  The drawback to brute-force hacking is that it imme-
diately triggers an alarm. If the system is actively moni-
tored, the hacker must beat the monitor in an Opposed
Infosec Test or be immediately locked out as soon as
they break in. Even if they succeed, the hacker has
Locked status and is subject to active countermeasures.
