INTRUSION COUNTERMEASURES
If an intruding hacker fails to penetrate a system's
defenses (i.e., they are Spotted or Locked, see p. 256),
then the system goes on alert and activates certain
defenses. The nature of the applied countermeasures
depends on the capabilities of the system, the abilities
of its security defender(s), and the policy of its owner/
admins. While some nodes will simply seek to kick
the intruder out and keep them shut out, others will
actively counterattack, seeking to track the intruder
and potentially hack the intruder's own PAN.

SECURITY ALERTS
Security alerts come in two flavors: passive and active.

PASSIVE ALERT
Passive alerts are triggered when an intruder hits Spot-
ted status. The system immediately flags a visual or
acoustic cue to anyone actively monitoring the system
and possibly the owner or admins. It immediately
launches one or more passive countermeasures (see
below). Depending on the system, extra security hack-
ers or AIs may be brought in to help investigate. If the
intruder is not encountered again or located within a
set time period (usually about 10 minutes), the alarm
is deactivated and the event is logged as an anomaly.
Depending on the security level of the system, some-
one may analyze the logs at some point and try to
ascertain what happened—and prevent it from hap-
pening again.
   All intruders suffer a –10 modifier for tests involv-
ing a system that is on passive alert.

ACTIVE ALERT
An active alert is triggered when an intruder hits
Locked status. The system immediately alerts the
owners, admins, and monitoring security agents.
Additional security assets (hackers and AIs) may be
called in. The system also launches active countermea-
sure against the intruder (see below). Active alerts are
maintained for as long as the intruder is present, and
sometimes for a lengthy period afterwards just in case
the hacker returns.

PASSIVE COUNTERMEASURES
Passive countermeasures are launched as a precaution
whenever an intruder acquires Spotted status.

LOCATE INTRUDER
A security hacker or AI monitoring a system may at-
tempt to track down the source of the passive alert.
See Zeroing In, p. 256.

RE-AUTHENTICATE
When a passive alert is triggered, a firewall can be set
to re-authenticate all active users, starting with the
most recent. At the beginning of the next Action Turn,
everyone on the system must take an action to log
back in. For intruders, this means making an Infosec
Test, modified by –10 for the passive alert, to satisfy
the system that they are a legitimate user.

REDUCE PRIVILEGES
As a protective measure, some systems will immedi-
ately reduce access privileges available to standard
users, and sometimes security users as well. One
common tactic is to protect all logs, backing them up
and making sure no one has rights to delete them.

ACTIVE COUNTERMEASURES
Active countermeasures can only be launched if the
intruder has acquired Locked status.

COUNTERINTRUSION
A security hacker or guardian AI can proactively
defend a system by attacking the intruder's source. For
this to occur, the intruder must first be successfully
traced (p. 251). Once this occurs, the security forces
can then launch their own intrusion on the hacker's
home ecto/mesh inserts and/or PAN.

LOCKOUT
A system that has locked onto an intruder may also
attempt to lock them out. Lockout is an attempt to
remove the compromised account, sever the connec-
tion between the two, and dump the hacker from
the system.
   Lockout must be initiated by someone with secu-
rity or admin privileges. An Opposed Infosec Test is
made, with the intruder suffering a –20 modifier for
being Locked. If the character defending the system
succeeds, the intruder is immediately ejected from
the system and the account they used will be placed
on quarantine or deleted. That account will not be
usable again until a security audit approves it and
replaces the authentication. Any attempt to access
the system from the same mesh ID as the intruder
automatically fails.

REBOOT/SHUTDOWN
Perhaps the most drastic option for dealing with an
interloper is to simply shut down the system. In this
case, the system closes all wireless connections (if it
has any), logs off any users, terminates all processes,
and shut itself down—thereby locking out the intruder.
The disadvantage, of course, is that the system must
interrupt its activities. For example, shutting down
your mesh inserts or ecto means losing all communica-
tion with teammates, access to augmented reality, and
control over slaved/linked devices.
   Initiating a reboot/shutdown is only a Complex
Action, but the actual process of shutdown takes
anywhere from 1 Action Turn (personal devices) to 1
minute (large hardwired networks with multiple users),
determined by the gamemaster. Rebooting a system
takes the same amount of time to get started again.
