TRACE
For high-security systems, a popular countermeasure
is to track the infiltrator's physical location via their
mesh ID (see Physical Tracking, p. 251). In most cases,
habitat physical security is subsequently alerted and
forwarded the position to take care of the criminal.

WIRELESS TERMINATION
An alternative to shutdown or rebooting is simply to
sever all wireless connections by shutting down the
wireless capabilities of the system. The system will
lose all active connections, but any intruders will be
dumped. Wireless termination is a Complex Action to
initiate and completes at the end of that Action Turn.
Re-starting wireless connectivity takes 1 Action Turn.




  JOINT HACKING/
  SECURING
  Hacking will sometimes involve teams of attack-
  ers and/or teams of defenders. A hacker might
  be backed up by their muse or another team
  member with moderate Infosec skills. Hard
  networks are often defended and monitored
  by teams of highly-skilled security hackers and
  AIs. When intruding in or defending a computer
  system, operators must decide whether to act
  individually or in concert.
     Each approach has its tradeoffs. A team that
  chooses to breach or maintain a system's security
  as a team effort must allocate one character (usu-
  ally the team member with the highest Infosec
  skill) as the primary actor (see Teamwork, p. 117).
  Each additional character and muse adds a +10
  modifier for each test (up to the maximum +60
  modifier) but cannot spend time on other actions
  than those performed by the team leader. When
  acting in concert, teams may switch team leaders
  at any time, in case group members are special-
  ized for certain tasks.
     Alternately, both intruding and defending
  teams may choose to act individually but for a
  joint goal. Each hacker must make intrusions
  on their own, with individual repercussions for
  detection and counterintrusion, which runs the
  risk of affecting all intruders if any one is Spotted
  or Locked. On the other hand, a team of intrud-
  ers can pursue multiple actions simultaneously in
  a coordinated manner and may temporarily over-
  whelm available security. The same holds true for
  system defenders, who may accomplish more by
  splitting their actions, leaving some to monitor
  while others launch counterintrusion attacks and
  other countermeasures.                              ■
