SUBVERSION
Once an intruder has successfully invaded a device
or network, they can pursue whatever tasks they are
interested in, as fitting that particular system. Depend-
ing on the type of account the intruder hacked, they
may or may not have access privileges to do what
they want to do. If their access rights allow it, the
activity is handled like that of a legitimate user and
no test is called for (unless the activity itself calls for
some kind of test, such as Research). For example, a
hacker who infiltrates a habitat's security system with
a security account can monitor cameras, deactivate
sensors, review recorded surveillance footage, and so
on, as any legitimate user with security right would be
allowed to do.
   Engaging in any sort of activity for which you
don't have access rights is more difficult and requires
hacking the system. This typically requires an Infosec
Success Test, modified by the difficulty of the action
as noted on the Subversion Difficulties table. In most
cases this in not an Opposed Test even if the system is
actively monitored, unless specifically stated otherwise.
Failing such tests, however, will result in a change of
the hacker's intruder status (see Failing Tests, p. 256).
   Examples for different types of system subversion
are given in the Subversion Examples sidebar. This
is not an exhaustive list, however, and gamemasters
and players are encouraged to improvise game effects
in case an action has not been explicitly described.

AUGMENTED REALITY ILLUSIONS
A hacker who has infiltrated an ecto, mesh inserts, or
some other device with an AR interface may inject
different kinds of visual, auditory, tactile, and even
emotional illusions into the augmented reality of
the device's user, depending on the type of interface
used. How the hacked user will respond to the illu-
sion depends on a number of factors, such as whether
they are aware of the intruder (i.e., the hacker has
Spotted or Locked status), what type of interface they
are using (entoptic or haptic), and how realistic the
illusion is.
   The best illusions are, of course, crafted in advance,
using the best image and sensory manipulation tools
available. Such illusions are hyper-realistic. Anyone
making a Perception Test to identify them as fake


                                         SUBVERSION
                                              Difficulty modifiers

MODIFIER TASK
             Execute commands, view restricted information, run
    –0
             copy/delete files, access sensor feeds, access slaved d
   –10       Change system settings, alter logs/restricted files
   –20       Interfere with system operations, alter sensor/AR inp
   –30       Shut system down, lockout user/muse, launch counte
                   SUBVERSION EXAMPLES
         In addition to the tasks noted under the Subversion Difficulties
              these modifiers present some additional example actions.

MODIFIER TASK
     Hacking Bots/Vehicles
    –0         Give orders to drones
   –10         Alter sensor system parameters, disable sensors or weapo
   –20         Alter smartlink input, send false data to AI or teleoperato
   –30         Lockout AI or teleoperator, seize control via puppet sock
     Hacking Ectos/Mesh Inserts
               Interact with entoptics, befriend everyone in range, make
    –0
               purchases using user's credit, intercept communications,
               Alter social network profile/status, adjust AR filters, twea
   –10
               interface, change AR skin, change avatar, access VPN
               Block or shuffle senses, inject AR illusions, spoof comman
   –20
               drones/slaved devices
   –30         Boot user out of AR
     Hacking Habitat Systems
    –0         Open/close doors, stop/start elevators, operate intercom
               Adjust temperature/lighting, disable safety warnings, repl
   –10
               tic skin, lock doors, switch traffic timers
               Disable subsystems (plumbing, recycling, etc.), disable wi
   –20
               dispatch repair crews
   –30         Override safety cutoffs
     Hacking Security Systems
    –0         Move/manipulate cameras/sensors, locate security systems
               Adjust patterns of sensor sweeps, view security logs, disa
   –10
               systems
   –20         Delete security logs, dispatch security teams
   –30         Disable alerts
     Hacking Simulspace Systems
    –0         View current status of simulspace, simulmorphs, and acce
               Change domain rules, add cheats, alter parameters of sto
   –10
               simulmorphs, change time dilation
   –20         Eject simulmorph, alter/erase character AIs
   –30         Abort simulation
     Hacking Spimes
    –0         Get status report, use device functions
   –10         Adjust AI/voice personality settings, adjust timed operatio
   –20         Disable sensors, disable device functions




DIFFICULTIES
ommon computer tasks


cted software, open/close connections to other systems, read/write/
es



asures at others
