suffers a –10 to –30 modifier (gamemaster's discre-
tion). An eclectic collection of software programs
offer a diverse range of AR illusions.
   Hackers may also improvise illusions on the
fly, usually by patching in sensor data from others
sources, though this is more difficult and more easily
spotted (typically adding a +10 to +30 modifier to
Perception Tests). The advantage is that the hacker
can modify the illusion in reaction to the user's ac-
tions or environmental factors on the fly. AR illusion
software, however, also offers some template illusions
that can be modified and controlled in real-time via a
connected interface.
   Whenever a user is bombarded with AR illusions, the
gamemaster should make a secret Perception Test to see
if they spot the deception. Even if they do, however, the
character may still react to them. Almost anyone will
duck when they see an object suddenly flying at their
face, as their body reacts on its own before the brain
comprehends that it's an illusion and not a threat.
   Aside from their deceptive value, illusions can be
used to distract users or otherwise impair their percep-
tive faculties. For example, dark illusory clouds can
obscure vision, ear-wrenching high-volume noises can
make people cringe, and a persistent tickling sensation
might drive anyone crazy. Such effects can apply a –10
to –30 modifier to Perception Tests and other actions,
but the user can also adjust their filters and/or turn
their AR off if necessary.

BACKDOORS
A backdoor is a method of bypassing a system's normal
authentication and security features. It enables a hacker
to sneak into a system by exploiting a flaw (which can
take the form of an installed program or modification
to an existing program or hardware device) that was
integrated into the system previously, either by themself
or another hacker (who shared the backdoor).
   To install a backdoor, the hacker must successfully
infiltrate the system and succeed in both a Program-
ming and an Infosec Test (or an Opposed Infosec Test
if the system is actively monitored). The Programming
Test determines how well the backdoor is crafted and
hidden within system processes, while the Infosec Test
represents incorporating it into the system without se-
curity noticing. Modify the Programming Test by –20
if the hacker wants to have security privileges when
using the backdoor, –30 for admin.
   Once installed, using a backdoor requires no test to
access the system—the hacker simply logs on as if they
were a legitimate user, gaining Covert status. Anyone
who is aware of a backdoor's details may use it.
   How long the backdoor lasts depends on many fac-
tors and is largely up to the gamemaster. Backdoors
are only likely to be spotted during complete security
audits, so more paranoid systems are likely to detect
them earlier. Security audits may also occur when an
intruder is Spotted but never Locked. Security audits
are a Task Action with a timeframe of 24 hours. The
character conducting the audit makes an Infosec
Test to spot the back door. If the backdoor's installer
scored an Excellent Success on their Programming
Test, this Infosec Test suffers a –30 modifier.

CRASHING SOFTWARE
Intruders can attempt to crash software programs
by killing the processes that run them. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test. Note that some
software is set to immediately respawn, but this can take
from 1 Action turn to 1 minute, depending on the system.
   Hackers may crash AIs, AGIs, and even infomorphs
this way, but the process is more difficult. In this case,
an Opposed Infosec Test is made against the target,
who is immediately aware they are under attack. Two
consecutive tests must succeed in order to crash an AI,
three in order crash an AGI or infomorph. If successful,
the AI/infomorph immediately reboots, which generally
takes 3 Action Turns, longer if the gamemaster chooses.

ELIMINATING INTRUSION TRACES
Hackers who have avoided being Locked may attempt
to clean up all traces of their intrusion before they
exit a system. This involves erasing incriminating data
in the access and security logs, and otherwise hiding
any evidence of system tampering. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test, or an Opposed
Infosec Test if the system is actively monitored. If suc-
cessful, the intruder has wiped anything that might be
used to track them down later, such as mesh ID, etc.

HACKING VPNS
Virtual private networks (VPNs) are more challeng-
ing to hack than standard devices. Because they exist
as an encrypted network within the mesh, accessing
channels of communication within a VPN is all but
impossible with the encryption key. This means any
attempt to sniff the VPN traffic is also impossible
with the key.
  The only way to hack a VPN is to hack into a
device that is part of the VPN and running the VPN
software. Once an intruder has access to such a device,
they can attempt to access the VPN. The account the
hacker has compromised may have VPN privileges, in
which case they are in. If not, they must hack access,
requiring an Infosec Test with a Minor modifier (–10).
   Once access to the VPN is acquired, the hacker may
treat the VPN like any other network. They may hack
other devices on the VPN, sniff VPN traffic, track
other users on the VPN, research data hidden away
on the VPN, and so on.

SCRIPTING
A script is a simple program—a batch of instructions—
that a hacker can embed in a system to be executed at
a later pre-scheduled time or upon a certain trigger
event, even without the hacker being present. When
activated, the script will undertake a number of system
operations limited by the abilities of the operating
system and the access rights the hacker had when
they implemented the script in the system. Scripts are
