spasms (pain), nightmares (fear), and shutters (sensory
deprivation). These are described on p. 332 of Gear.

SHUTDOWN
If a cyberbrain is shut down (p. 257), the morph im-
mediately ceases activity, perhaps collapsing or rolling
to a stop. Pods will appear to be in a coma. The ego,
however, will be rebooted along with the cyberbrain.

TERMINATE CORTICAL STACK FEED
The cyberbrain feeds backup data to the cortical stack.
This is a one-way connection, so the cortical stack may
not be hacked, but the transfer of data may be cut off.
This termination action requires an Opposed Infosec
Test between the hacker (with the –30 modifier) and
the defender. The ego's backup will not be updated for
as long as the connection remains off.



RADIO JAMMING
Radio jamming is a method of transmitting radio
signals that deliberate interfere with other radio
signals in order to disrupt communications. In the
highly-networked world of Eclipse Phase, intentional
jamming is often illegal, not to mention rude.
  Radio jamming does not require any special equip-
ment other than a standard wireless device, such as
an ecto or mesh inserts. Jamming can be selective
or universal. Selective jamming targets a particular
device or set of devices. In order to selectively jam,
the character must have scanned the target device(s)
(p. 251). Universal devices target all radio-equipped
devices indiscriminately.
  Jamming simply requires a Complex Action and an
Interfacing Test. If successful, affected devices within
range have their radio communications disrupted—
they are cut off from the mesh and may not commu-
nicate wirelessly. Wired devices are unaffected.
   Devices equipped by AIs will automatically attempt
to overcome jamming, which requires a Complex
Action (transhuman users may also do the same). In
this case, a Variable Opposed Test is made between
the jammer and defender. If the jammer wins, all com-
munications are blocked; if the defender wins, they
are unaffected. If both parties succeed, the defender's
communications are impacted but not completely cut
off. The gamemaster decides how much information
the defender can get through, and how this situation
affects mesh use.

JAMMING RADAR
Jamming can also be used to interfere with radar. In
this case, if the jammer makes an Interface Test. If
successful, the radar suffers interference, imposing
a –30 modifier on all sensor-related tests. The entity
operating the radar may attempt to overcome this
interference by beating the jammer in an Opposed
Interface Test.
SIMULSPACES
Simulspaces are virtual reality environments where
the resolution advances beyond realistic high defini-
tion and into the hyper-real. The environments they
create are comprehensive and authentic illusions, from
aspects like lighting, day or lunar cycles, and weather
down to minute details and sensations. Jacking into
a simulspace is much like crossing over into a alter-
nate world or reality, which is why simulspaces have
become increasingly popular in entertainment.
   While simulspaces usually cannot harm characters
immersed in them as the sensory algorithms are not
intended to be offensive programs or routines, experi-
ences in simulspaces can have a strong psychological
impact on an ego, as the simulation is as close to
reality as you can get. A character who is “physically”
tortured within a simulspace will not be physically
harmed, but the mental stress of the experience might
still be sufficient to cause permanent traumas.

SIMULMORPHS
Characters access simulspace using an avatar-like per-
sona called a simulmorph. This simulmorph is created by
the simulspace, based on the domain rules of the simu-
lation and certain characteristics of the morph or ego
accessing the simulation. Depending on the simulation,
this simulmorph may be customizable to varying degrees.
   While interacting with the simulation, treat simul-
morphs as basic infomorphs for all rules purposes,
even if the egos are still possessing another morph
body in reality.
   When accessing a simulspace, muses are usually not
transferred into the simulation, though they can po-
tentially come along if domain rules permit it. In this
case, muses are treated as separate characters within
the simulspace with their own simulmorph body.
   Depending on the role a simulspace is intended to play
in the story, the gamemaster may want to invent “physi-
cal stats” for the simulmorph bodies, especially if the
characters are likely to spend a lot of time in the simula-
tion. These statistics can literally be made up—it is a vir-
tual reality after all, and anything goes. Alternately, the
gamemaster can simply wing it and invent any necessary
statistics on the fly as the need for them comes up.

IMMERSION
When a character immerses themselves in a simulspace,
they “become” the simulmorph. The character's physi-
cal body, typically secluded and protected in a vat or
couch, slumps inertly. While immersed, they suffer –60
on all Perception Tests or attempts to take action with
their physical morph. Characters can enter and leave
the simulspace as will, but toggling in or out takes a
Complex Action.
  If the simulspace crashes or the character is other-
wise dumped from it, they immediately resume con-
trol of their own morph as normal. VR dumpshock is
extremely jarring, and the character suffers 1d10 ÷ 2
mental stress.
