EXTERNAL MESH INTERACTION
A character accessing a simulspace may still interact
with the mesh (and through it, the outside world)
assuming the domain rules allow for it. Any outside
interactions are subject to time dilation issues, how-
ever. For example, in a simulspace running faster
than real time, holding a chat with someone in out-
side meatspace is excruciatingly slow, as real-world
seconds translate into minutes in VR. If a character
wishes to directly access other mesh nodes, they must
toggle or log out of the simulspace.

SIMULSPACE RULES
Since a simulspace is an alternate world whose realism
matches reality, characters use their physical skills and
aptitudes as if they were acting in the real world with
few exceptions:

 - Though intrusion and hacking can be represented
   as another layer of the simulation, there is no
   actual hacking within the simulspace (see Hack-
   ing Simulspaces).
 - Asyncs cannot use their psi abilities in simulspace,
   though such abilities can be simulated.
 - Any “physical” damage taken in the simulspace is
   treated as “virtual” damage. While virtual injuries
   and wounds use the same mechanics, characters
   that die in a simulspace are usually simply ejected
   from the simulation. In some cases “dead” char-
   acters are brought into a white room and can
   re-enter or just watch the simulation, depending
   on the domain rules.
 - Mental stress or trauma inflicted during a simu-
   lation carries over to the ego as real Lucidity
   damage. At the gamemaster's discretion, some
   mental stress may be reduced if the character is
   aware that they are in a simulation.

DOMAIN RULES
Anything goes in a simulspace, as dictated by
the domain rules. A simulspace may range from
approximating reality very closely to differing dras-
tically. Gravity might fluctuate, the visual light spec-
trum might not exist, characters might heal virtual
damage effortlessly, simulmorphs may be capable of
transmogrifying into other creatures, everything might
be underwater—the possibilities are endless, limited
only by imagination. In game terms, this allows the
gamemaster to make up rules on the fly.

CHEATING
As with any good game, simulspaces provide ways
to cheat. Cheats are either built into the simulspace
software or (externally) programmed in by a hacker.
Cheats allow for a character to break the domain rules
in some way. This may be a special power, a way to
alter some environmental factor (like flying), altering
the time dilation, some sort of power-up ability, a
way to get info on other simulmorphs, or a short-cut
through part of the simulation. In game terms, cheats
might provide bonus modifiers to certain skill or stat
tests made by a simulmorph. Cheating is usually for-
bidden. Players who cheat in a simulspace game and
who get caught may face eviction from the simulspace.

HACKING SIMULSPACES
Since simulspaces are complex virtual environments
and often run on time dilation, hackers cannot hack
them in a normal manner when they participate in the
simulation. There are ways to affect and influence the
simulation from within, but the degree of subversion
that is achievable is limited. For this reason, hackers
rarely enter into VR to hack. Hacking into the exter-
nal system running a simulspace is just like breaking
into any other system. Use all of the standard rules for
intrusion and subversion.

MEDDLING FROM THE INSIDE
Within a simulspace, a hacker's only choice for inter-
acting with the VR controls is through the standard
interface that any simulmorph can pull up. Typically
used for standard user features like adjusting your
simulmorph or chatting with or checking the status
