                              HACKING SIMULS
MODIFIER TASK
   –0     Analyze simulation parameters, view domain rules, shap
  –10     Change probability of test outcomes, become invisible (
          Interfere with simulation (e.g. make it rain, generate ear
  –20
          simulmorphs
  –30     Go into god mode, command simulated characters, take


 of other users, a clever hacker might find some ways
 to subvert the system. Such options are usually lim-
 ited, however, as a number of system controls and
 processes cannot be accessed and manipulated from
 the inside.
    Most of the hacker's options are going to involve
 meddling with the simulation and its specific domain
 rules or possibly gaining access to cheats. To make a
 change requires a successful Interface Test. Ultimately
 the gamemaster decides what the hacker can and
 cannot get away with, based on the limitations of that
 particular simulspace.
    Most simulspaces are monitored to prevent cheat-
 ing and abuse, though the monitors are typically pre-
 occupied with maintaining the simulspace as a whole,
 dealing with other users, etc. At the gamemaster's
 discretion, such a monitor might get to make an Inter-
 face Test (possibly with a modifier for distraction) to
 notice the hacker's efforts.



 AIS AND MUSES
AIs are sentient but specialized programs. Like other
software, they must be run on a computerized system.
Most AIs are run on bots, vehicles, and other com-
puterized devices where they can assist transhuman
users or operate the machine themselves. They are also
commonly used to actively monitor computer systems
against intrusion attempts. Muses are AIs that special-
ize as personal companions, always at a character's
virtual side every since they were a child.
   Sample AIs and muses can be found on p. 331 of Gear.

 AI LIMITATIONS
AIs feature a number of built-in restrictions and
limitations. To start with, they can be loaded in the
cyberbrains of pods and synthmorphs, but they may
not be downloaded into biomorph brains. As software,
they use the same rules as other software and may be
shut down, restarted, copied, erased, stored as inert
data, infected with virii, and reprogrammed. Due to
their size and complexity, only one AI (or infomorph)
may be run on a personal computer at a time (see
Computer Capabilities, p. 247), and they may not run
on peripheral devices.
  While they possess cognition and intelligence, they
are incapable of self-improvement and cannot expand
their programming and skills on their own. Although
ACE FROM WITHIN

pearance of simulmorph, switch simulmorph character or morph type
-game”) to others
akes), generate items, ignore domain rules, kill or lockout other

r the simulation


   they are not able to learn they do possess memory
   storage that grants them the ability to remember and
   a limited form of adaptation. AIs do not earn Rez
   Points, nor do they have Moxie.
     AIs have aptitudes no greater than 20 but are
   incapable of defaulting. If they don't possess a skill,
   they don't know how to do it. (At the gamemaster's
   discretion, they may default to field skills or similar
   skills as noted on p. 173 with a –10 to –30 modifier).
   They can use skills like any character in Eclipse Phase,
   however they may not possess any Active skill at a
   rating higher than 40 or Knowledge skill higher than
   90—the maximum amount of expertise that their skill
   software allows.
     While AIs are programmed with personality tem-
   plates and empathy, they are generally less emotive
   and difficult to read (apply a –30 modifier to Kinesics
   Test made against them, when in pod bodies). When
   combined with non-expressive synthetic morphs, they
   are even more difficult (–60 modifier). Some AIs lack
   emotive capabilities altogether and are impossible to
   read with Kinesics skill.
     AIs do have a Lucidity and Trauma Threshold stat,
   and are capable of suffering mental stress and traumas.

   COMMANDING AIS
   AIs and muses are programmed to accept commands
   from authorized users. In some circumstances, they
   may also be programmed to follow the law or some
   ethical code. Programming is never perfect, however,
   and AIs can be quite clever in how they interpret
   commands and act on them. In most cases, an AI will
   rarely refuse to follow a request or obey a command.
   Given that they also usually have a duty to protect the
   person commanding them, the AI may be reluctant to
   follow commands that could be construed as danger-
   ous or having a negative impact on the user. Under
   certain circumstances, preprogrammed imperatives
   can force an AI to ignore or disobey their owner's
   commands (gamemaster's discretion).



   AGIS AND INFOMORPHS
   The term “infomorph” is used to refer to any ego in
   digital body, whether that be an AGI or the digital
   emulation of a biological mind (including backups
   and forks). The following rules apply to infomorph
   and AGI characters.
