ROLEPLAYING MUSES
Muses should not be viewed as a mere tool for
getting extra skills, but as an opportunity to
enhance roleplaying. Though typical muse AIs
are not complete intelligences (though they can
be, see Infomorphs as Muses), their personality
matrix is often quite sophisticated and they are
very good at adapting to their user's personality
quirks. On the other hand, they share the same
Real World Naiveté (p. 151) as AGI characters
when it comes to understanding all the facets
of transhuman behavior, social interaction,
body language, or emotion. Their personalities
are more non-human, abstract, alien, and less
passionate than transhuman life forms, often
leading to conceptual misunderstandings and
miscommunications. Likewise, their creative
capacities are limited, instead bolstered by an
ability to calculate odds, run simulations and
evaluate outcomes, and make predictions based
on previous experiences.
   Depending on the user's stance towards sen-
tient programs, muses can be viewed as intel-
ligent toys, followers, servants, slaves, friends,
or pets, which should somehow be reflected in
game play. Most transhumans have also acquired
a tendency to bond with a muse mentally due to
its omnipresence and devotion to the user (like
bonding to a child or puppy that then grows to
be an adult). Therefore the subversion or even
destruction of a muse personality is sometimes
even equated with rape or murder.              ■




  SOFTWARE MINDS
 At their core, infomorphs are just programs and so
 they are treated like other software in terms of rules.
 They must be run on a specific personal computer or
 server (see Computer Capabilities, p. 247). If that
 device is shut down, the infomorph also shuts down
 into a state of unconsciousness, restarting along with
 the device (infomorphs may also shut themselves
 down, though it is rare that they do so). If the device is
 destroyed, the infomorph is killed along with it (unless
 their data can somehow be extracted from any surviv-
 ing components, perhaps resulting in a vapor, p. 274).
 Infomorphs may copy themselves, though in some
 places this is illegal and in most places is frowned
 upon as it raises numerous ethical and legal questions.
 For this reason many infomorphs that copy and trans-
 fer themself to run on a new device will thoroughly
 erase themselves off the old one.
   As digital beings, infomorphs have no physical
 mind, but it is a simple matter for them to possess
 an uninhabited synthmorph, taking up residence in
 the cyberbrain (see Resleeving Synthmorphs, p. 271).
  INFOMORPHS AS
  MUSES
  Instead of relying on underdeveloped muses for
  aid and companionship, characters may prefer to
  have a full-fledged digital intelligence at their
  side, whether that be an AGI, a backed-up bio-
  logical ego, or fork of the character's own per-
  sonality. Alternately, a character with a ghostrider
  module (p. 307) could have both, carrying a muse
  in their mesh inserts and an infomorph in the
  ghostrider module.
    This possibility is very useful for infomorph
  player characters, as they can ride along in some-
  one's head and participate in team affairs with-
  out needing a morph of their own.                 ■



They may also download into biomorph bodies ac-
cording to standard resleeving rules (p. 271). Even
when disembodied, they may interact with the
physical world via the mesh, viewing through sensors,
streaming XP feeds, communicating with characters,
commanding slaved devices, and teleoperating/jam-
ming drones.
   Infomorphs have a Speed of 3, reflecting their digi-
tal nature and their ability to act at electronic speeds.
If an infomorph sleeves into a body, however, it takes
on the Speed of that morph.

AGI CHARACTERS
Though AGIs were not born in a biological body, their
programming encompasses the full spectrum of human
personality, outlook, emotions, and mental states. AGIs
are in fact raised in a manner similar to human chil-
dren, so that they are socialized much like humans are.
Nevertheless, on a fundamental level they are non-hu-
mans programmed to act human. There are inevitably
points where the programming does not mask or alter
the fact that AGIs often possess or develop personality
traits and idiosyncrasies that are quite different from
human norms and often outright alien.
   Unlike standard crippled AIs, AGIs are capable of
full-fledged creativity, learning, and self-improvement
(at a slow but steady pace equivalent to humans). Just
like other characters, they earn Rez points and may
improve their skills and capabilities. AGIs suffer none
of the skill limitations placed on weak AIs, using skills
just like any other character.
   On an emotional level, AGIs run emotional subrou-
tines that are comparable to biological human emo-
tions. AGIs are, in fact, programmed to have empathy
and share an interest in human affairs and prosperity,
and to place significant relevance on life of all kinds.
In game terms, AGIs emote like humans (and so Kine-
sics may be used against them) and are vulnerable to
emotionally manipulative effects, fear, etc.
