■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■G



ERATED FUTURE
 The future setting of Eclipse Phase introduces a
 number of technological elements that have a strong
 impact on transhuman society. These include backups
 and uploading, resleeving, egocasting, forking, nano-
 fabrication, reputation systems, space habitats, and
 space travel, among others.



 BACKUPS AND UPLOADING
 The transhuman mind is no longer a prisoner of the
 biological hardware on which it originates. Through
 various mechanisms, biological brains may be digitally
 emulated, allowing people to make a backup of their
 minds, including their entire personality, memories,
 and skills—a process known as uploading.
   The primary use of backups is to ensure the person's
 ego can be retrieved in case of death, in which case
 they may be resleeved (p. 271). For this reason, almost
 everyone in the solar system is equipped with a corti-
 cal stack (p. 300). Backups may also be safely archived
 in secure storage (p. 269) or used to create infomorphs
 (p. 264). A person may also egocast themselves across
 the solar system as a form of travel (p. 276).

 CORTICAL STACK BACKUPS
 Cortical stack implants deploy a network of nano-
 bots throughout the brain that take a snapshot of
 the mind's neural state, storing the data as a backup
 within the cortical stack. The average transhuman's
 cortical stack backs up their ego 86,400 times per day.
 Only the most recent backup is kept within the stack;
 older ones are overwritten. Pods and synthmorphs
 also can be equipped with cortical stacks (though
 AI-piloted bots often lack this feature), though these
 versions maintain an updated copy of the ego running
 in the morph's cyberbrain.
    In the case of death, accidental or otherwise, a cor-
 tical stack can be retrieved from a corpse and used to
 recover the character, either as an infomorph or by
 resleeving them in a new morph. Cortical stacks are
 diamond-hardened and protected, so they may often
 be retrieved even if the corpse is badly mangled or
 damaged. If the corpse cannot be recovered or the
 cortical stack is destroyed, the backup is lost.
    High rollers, well-equipped brinkers, and others
 in dangerous professions often opt for an emergency
 farcaster accessory (p. 306) that periodically (usually
 every 48 hours, but varying according to contract)
 transmits a backup from the cortical stack to a remote
 storage facility. This option is quite expensive, how-
 ever, and so is generally only afforded by the wealthy.

 RETRIEVING A CORTICAL STACK
 Most cortical stacks are carefully excised from a
 corpse with surgery. In certain circumstances, however,
AR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■
                      ■GEAR■
                       GEAR■

                                                                10


  a character may need to extract a cortical stack in the
  field, whether because transporting the corpse is im-
  practical or because the dead person is an enemy and
  they either don't want them knowing who killed them
  or they want to interrogate them with psychosurgery
  in a simulspace.
     The process of cutting out a cortical stack is called
 “popping,” as a skilled extractor can usually get the
  smooth-shelled implant to pop right out by making
  an incision in the correct place and applying pressure.
  One does need to be careful that the tiny, blood-slick
  stack doesn't slip away once popped.
     Popping can be done with a sharp knife and elbow
  grease, though it is grisly. Popping a stack is a Task
 Action that requires a Medicine: [any appropriate
  field] Test with a timeframe of 1 minute and a modi-
  fier of +20. Morphs with stacks in non-standard loca-
  tions or with anatomical shielding (carapace plates,
  etc.) around the stack may incur penalties to this test
  at the gamemaster's discretion. Of course, if you don't
  have the time for a precise extraction, you can always
  just cut the entire head off and take it with you.
     Once a cortical stack is retrieved, it may be loaded
  into an ego bridge (p. 328) and used to bring the ego
  back, either as an infomorph or by resleeving.
     Living Subjects: Cortical stacks may be excised
  from living people, but the process is usually fatal (or
  at least paralyzing) as it involves cutting through the
  spinal column. If the target is not unconscious or oth-
  erwise incapacitated, they must first be immobilized
  in melee combat (see Subdual, p. 204). Cutting out
  the stack is handled like a Medicine Task Action as
  above, but this process inflicts 3d10 + 10 damage on
  the target. If the test fails, they still inflict 1d10 + 10
  damage to the target. If the person removing the stack
 wants to leave the target alive or harm them as little
  as possible, they suffer a –20 modifier on the test, but
  may reduce the damage by 1d10 per 10 full points of
  MoS. Living through the process of having your stack
  removed is traumatic; anyone who does so suffers
 1d10 mental stress.

  DESTROYING A CORTICAL STACK
  Cortical stacks have an Armor of 20 and a Durability
  of 20 for anyone attempting to destroy them.

  UPLOADING
  Uploading a backup into secure storage is usually
  handled with a brain scan at the storage facility's clinic
  using a bread box-sized unit called an ego bridge (p.
  328). When activated, the ego bridge's sensor array
  twists open like a morning glory blossom, revealing an
  enclosure with a neck rest that automatically adjusts
  itself to morphs with oddly-sized or -shaped heads.
  The neck rest deploys millions of specialized nanobots
