into the brain and central nervous system. The petals
are full of sensors that image the brain using a combi-
nation of MRI, sonogram, and positional information
broadcast by the nanobot swarm in the morph's brain.
The ego bridge then builds a digital copy of the per-
son's brain, which is stored away in the service's highly
secure, off-the-mesh, hardwired data vaults.
   In the case of pods, the ego bridge scans the biologi-
cal brain bits and also accesses the cyberbrain to copy
the parts of the ego residing there. For synthmorphs,
who have no biological brain, the process is much
simpler, as it simply requires accessing and making a
copy of their cyberbrain.
   In a standard clinic with an undamaged morph, up-
loading takes only 10 minutes, 5 with a pod. In other
situations, however, the process may take longer if the
gamemaster so decides. Uploading from a synthmorph
or extracted cortical stack is instantaneous. The ego
bridge largely operates itself. While oversight by a
medical specialist is a good idea, no test is necessary.
   If an uploading character does not plan to return
to their morph, it is usually put on ice until someone
else resleeves into it. If a new resleeve is not ready
and the uploading character doesn't want to leave a
potential copy of themselves behind, they can have
the morph's mind wiped by the nanobots as part of
the uploading process.

UPLOADING-RESLEEVING CONTINUITY
In ideal circumstances, a person who is intentionally
resleeving (p. 271) can arrange for the uploading and
resleeving process to occur with any noticeable loss of
continuity. Though the experience of switching from
one morph to another is still a bit jarring, the transi-
tion itself can be made into a seamless process, with
no gaps in awareness or memory, which helps reduce
associated mental stress.
   In this case, during the process of uploading, the
ego bridge is also connected to another ego bridge
and the new sleeve. This connection can even be made
wirelessly or by farcaster link (with a maximum dis-
tance of 10,000 kilometers).
   As the mind is uploaded, the ego bridge builds a
virtual brain by copying the morph's brain bit by bit,
using the data gained from the brain scan. At the same
time, this data is slowly copied to the new sleeve as
nanobots rewire the sleeve's brain structure (a much
slower process). As the transfer occurs, the nanobots
in the brain sever individual neural connections and
re-route them to their duplicates in the virtual brain,
and then eventually to the new brain. Effectively, the
character's ego is running partially on the meat brain
and partially on the virtual copy. By the time the nano-
bots sever the last of the neural connections in the
old brain, the ego is running completely on the virtual
brain and the new sleeve's brain. Once the resleeving
is completed, the virtual brain is shut down.
   In terms of perceptions, the character, who is awake
during this process, experiences a very gradual shift
from one morph to the other. As the process takes
hours, however (or even longer if done via farcaster),
the subject usually entertains themselves with some
AR media, VR, or even XP to pass the time.

UPLOADING AFTER DEATH
It is possible to upload the mind of a person who has
recently died as long as the nanobots have time to scan
the brain before cell deterioration kicks in too heavily,
which takes approximately 2 hours. It is possible to
sustain a corpse for longer by placing it in a healing
vat (p. 326) for nanostasis. Post-death uploads may
suffer integrity damage; see Backup Complications, p.
270.
   Cyberbrains may also be retrieved from a destroyed
synthmorph and reactivated, assuming they are not
damaged too heavily (gamemaster discretion).

DESTRUCTIVE UPLOADING
Though rare, some people engage in a process called
destructive uploading, where the biological brain is liter-
ally sliced apart and scanned piece by piece. Considered
abhorrent and wasteful by most transhumans, “brain-
peeling” is practiced by some bioconservative factions
who view it as the only “pure” method of uploading
or the only real way to transfer the “soul.” Such people
typically refuse to resleeve, living out the rest of their
lives as infomorphs, quite often in dedicated simulspaces
that are treated as a sort of virtual afterlife.

BACKUP INSURANCE
Almost everyone, with the exception of neo-primitivists
and very young children, has a cortical stack. In the
event of death, however, a cortical stack alone will not
ensure resurrection unless you have acquired backup
insurance (p. 330) to cover the costs of your resleev-
ing. Going without backup insurance for any length of
time is taking a severe risk. Some jurisdictions (such
as the Titanian Commonwealth) have a practice of
bringing everyone back, even if only to an infomorph
state, or at least filing the most recent backup away
in dead storage just in case someone decides to pay
to resurrect them later. Other authorities will simply
destroy the stack or, worse, sell it on the black market
to a soul-trading syndicate such as Nine Lives.
  Backup insurance typically includes a subscription
to an uploading facility, usually requiring a visit every
6 months, to ensure that backup is held in safe stor-
age in case of cortical stack loss. People with risky
jobs (construction bot supervisor, hypercorp exo-
planet staff, girl who fights vicious giant eels for rich
jaded audiences, etc.) may back up once a week, or
even daily. In the event of a verified death where the
cortical stack could not be retrieved, the most recent
backup is used to resleeve the person.
  At the basic level, backup insurance will bring the
character back as an infomorph, at which point they
can access their credit and purchase a new morph.
More expensive versions will automatically resleeve
