you in the pre-purchased morph of your choice. The
exceedingly rich will often have customized clones
(often of their original body) waiting on ice for them.
  Backup insurance often involves a missing person
clause, which states that a person will be brought
back if they have not checked in for X amount of time
(a calendar function automatically handled by your
muse) and cannot be located.
   It is worth noting that some criminal syndicates
also offer backup insurance at a much reduced rate.
The likelihood that copies of your backup are being
used for illicit purposes, however, is quite high. For
some people, however, what happens to a copy of
themselves is of no concern.

BACKUP INSURANCE LIMITATIONS
Backup insurance is not always perfect. Though in-
surance providers are required to make a reasonable
effort to retrieve your cortical stack, for many hyper-
corps this is a simple cost-benefit analysis that often
will not work in the character's favor. If you died in a
dangerous area such as the Zone on Mars, in a remote
area such as the Kuiper Belt, or are simply difficult
to track down (pushed out an airlock somewhere),
odds are against your cortical stack being retrieved—
instead you will be re-instanced from a backup.
   Jurisdiction can also play an important role. The
insurance offered by many inner system providers is
automatically nullified if you travel to an anarchist
habitat, gatecrash, break the law, or engage in certain
life-threatening activities like suicide sports or scaveng-
ing in TITAN-infected ruins. At the least, they will
refuse to retrieve your stack in these circumstances.
Likewise, if you struck a backup insurance deal with
a medical collective from an autonomist habitat and
then go and die on a hypercorp station, the hypercorp
is very likely to refuse to recognize the authority of a
bunch of anarchists and won't hand your stack over.
   Even an archived backup and a missing person
clause is no guarantee. A determined enemy could
capture you, pry the backup insurance access codes
from your muse, keep you on ice or quietly kill you,
and then regularly “check in” on your behalf using
the access codes so that the insurance provider never
realizes you are dead or missing. Though this requires
quite a bit of effort, it is often less difficult than deal-
ing with an immortal opponent who keeps coming
back no matter how often you kill them.
  Other dangers also exist. An entire habitat may be
destroyed, taking you, your backups, and your insur-
ance provider's records with it. A resourceful enemy
might penetrate a provider's security and delete your
backups, or simply bribe the right people to make
sure they get “accidentally” corrupted. Given these
possibilities, the paranoid often make sure to get
multiple redundant backup policies, assuming they
can afford it.

BACKUP COMPLICATIONS
In most cases, backing up/uploading is risk free unless
someone tampers with the equipment. If the character
suffered brain or neurological damage, the backup is
transferred via farcasting, or the upload is made from
a dead character, then the backup may be damaged
due to missing neural information. In any of these
instances, make a LUC Test for the character. If the
test fails, they suffer 1 point of mental stress per 10
full points of MoF. Note that this stress (and pos-
sible) trauma applies to the backup, not the original
character. If the backup is used to re-instantiate the
character, however, then the stress is applied.



RESLEEVING
Resleeving (also called remorphing) is the process
of giving a new body to an ego. Changing bodies
is a normal part of life for hundreds of millions of
transhumans, and it is an even more frequent occur-
rence for people in certain professions. Characters
involved in specialized work may resleeve as often as
once a month. Those who travel frequently may do so
even more often. Also, given the number of infugees
