  who died during the Fall but have now acquired a
  new morph, the vast majority of transhumanity has
  resleeved at least once. As such, most transhumans are
  accustomed to resleeving.
    Adjusting to a new body takes time and a bit of
  effort (see Integration, p. 272). Resleeving is also diffi-
  cult psychologically, as reflected by continuity (p. 272)
  and alienation (p. 272).
    Once an ego fully inhabits a new morph, the new
  morph's cortical stack needs ten minutes to amass a
  complete backup of the ego.

  RESLEEVING BIOMORPHS AND PODS
  Resleeving takes about an hour in a properly equipped
  clinic. In essence, the process works like uploading in
  reverse. The new sleeve is hooked up to an ego bridge
  which infiltrates the brain with nanobots that physi-
  cally restructure the brain's neural structure and con-
  nections according to the map provided by the backup.
  Sleeving takes six times as long as uploading because
  the nanobot swarm working as a wet printer in the
  template brain needs to duplicate the entire physical
  structure of the ego's neural network. For resleeving, a
 “wet” ego bridge is used, meaning that the sleeve and
  ego bridge are submerged in a vat filled with nanogel.
     The resleeving process for pods takes only half an hour,
  as pods brains are half biological and half cyberbrain.

  RESLEEVING SYNTHMORPHS
  Resleeving into the cyberbrain of a synthmorph is much
  easier and quicker, being a matter of copying the backup
  into the cyberbrain (an instantaneous affair) and then
  running the backup in its virtual brain state (1 Action
  Turn). The drawback to synthmorphs is that they are
  more difficult to acclimate to (see Integration, p. 272),




RESLEEVING AND THE GA
The gamemaster has a fine amount of control over
characters may be supplied with new morphs by Firew
currently working. In this case, the gamemaster can si
plete control over enhancements, traits, etc. While mo
presents an opportunity for the gamemaster to throw
some new challenges to overcome. Gamemasters are
something they can work with without necessarily giv
   In other cases, the availability of desired morphs
outpost in the wilds of Mars is unlikely to have a w
synthmorphs may be all they have. Similarly, large hab
may be a waiting list for top-of-the-line sylphs or rem
morphs are going to be subject to local legalities, so g
Characters could always turn to black market morph p
  What this means is that gamemasters should never
that is unreasonable or potentially disruptive to the ga
want once in a while, it also makes for more interest
a little different than what they were hoping for or t
physical addiction. For extra fun, leave the character u
until they reveal themselves. As always, the goal is to h
   they are vulnerable to cyberbrain hacking (p. 261), and
   synthmorphs are viewed as low class in some cultures.

   EVACUATING A CYBERBRAIN
   Characters inhabiting a synthmorph cyberbrain may
   voluntarily choose to evacuate by copying themselves
   as an infomorph onto another device. This takes 1 full
   Action Turn. See Infomorph Resleeving, p. 273.

    RESLEEVING COSTS
   The costs involved for the resleeving process itself are
   generally subsumed in the costs of the backup insur-
   ance and/or the new sleeve itself. Costs for individual
   morphs are noted in the descriptions starting on p.
   139. See Morph Brokerage (p. 276) for rules on find-
   ing and acquiring morphs.

    INTEGRATION
    Getting used to a new body typically takes some time.
   The character must become acclimated to the changes
    in height, weight, sex, and capabilities, which often
    requires unlearning ways of doing things that worked
    fine for their previous form. Resleeving in a synthetic
    morph or an uplift is also quite confusing at first,
    given the drastically different morphologies, change in
    limb structure (and sometimes amount of limbs), and
    so on. Luckily, transhuman minds are adaptive things,
    and this process is aided by the application of mental
   “patches” during the resleeving process that give the
    character a bit of a boost for using their new body.
       An ego in a new morph makes an Integration Test
    upon taking control of the body, rolling SOM x 3 (morph
    bonuses do not apply) and applying modifiers from the
    Integration and Alienation Modifiers table. The result of
    the test is explained on the Integration Test table, p. 272.




MEMASTER
 at a character can obtain when resleeving. The
  or whatever employer/patron for whom they are
  y assign whatever morphs they see fit—with com-
hs should be tailored for the mission at hand, this
 e characters some new toys to play with and also
couraged to mix it up, have fun, and give players
  them everything they want.
 y be limited by the resleeving location. A small
  selection of morphs—in fact, a few rusters and
 ts have a high demand for good morphs, so there
   morphs, for example. In the same vein, available
 ng that reaper morph may be out of the question.
 iders, but these come with their own risks.
afraid to say no if a character is pursuing a morph
  While it's good form to give the players what they
 roleplaying to saddle them with morphs that are
  come with some interesting challenges, such as a
ware of a morph's negative traits or secret implants
   fun, but variety often helps with that.        ■
