    INTEGRATION TEST
            EFFECT
            Character is unable to acclimate to the new morph—
            something is just not right. Character suffers a –30 modi-
            fier to all physical actions until resleeved.
            Character has serious trouble acclimating to the new
0+)         morph. They suffer a –10 modifier to all actions for 2 days
            plus 1 day per 10 full points of MoF.
            Character has some trouble acclimating to new morph.
            They suffer a –10 modifier to all physical actions for 2
            days plus 1 day per 10 full points of MoF.
            Standard acclimation period. The character suffers a –10
            modifier to all physical actions for 1 day.
            No ill effects. Character acclimates to new morph in no
 S 30+)
            more than a few minutes.
            Lookin' good! This morph is an exceptionally good fit for
            the character. No ill effects; gain 1 Moxie point for use in
            that game session only.



ION AND ALIENATION MODIFIERS
                                                             EFFECT
s used this exact morph extensively in the past                +30
                                                               +20
 orph type (what they were raised with)                        +20
el 2)                                                          +20
el 1)                                                          +10
 sly used this type of morph                                   +10
                                                               –10
eeving into a physical body                                    –10
resleeving in a non-uplift (of their type) body                –10
                                                               –10
 morph)                                                        –10
ified                                                           –10
ait (Level 1)                                                  –10
ait (Level 2)                                                  –20
apply to AGIs) (Alienation Test only)                          –20
only)                                                          –20
ait (Level 3)                                                  –30
orph, neo-avian, novacrab, swarmanoid, etc.)                   –30




        ALIENATION TEST
                                 EFFECT
Extreme Dysmorphia. The character doesn't like their new sleeve at all
and suffers 2 stress points per 10 full points of MoF.
Character is uneasy about the new morph and suffers 1 stress point
per 10 full points of MoF.
Character adapts to their new look well. No ill effects.
Best. Morph. Ever. The new morph jives perfectly with the character's
 ense of self, and even enhances it somewhat. The character actually
heals 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) stress points.
ALIENATION
After loss of continuity, the other major factor impact-
ing resleeving characters is alienation. Once the ego
has its new sleeve under control, it's time to look in
the mirror. The alienation test reflects the experience of
coming to terms with a new face, skin, and brain. For
example, transferring to a radically different morph
(such as a swarmanoid) can be difficult to grasp.
Uplifts often have difficulty getting acquainted with
the differing hormonal urges of a human biomorph
and vice versa. While the character's ego is as it was
in their last sleeve, the brains and neurochemistry of
many morphs may alter aptitudes like WIL or COG.
The effects of this can be frustrating or disorienting.
  Every character makes an Alienation Test to reflect
how mentally stressful it is to get a grip on their new
body, rolling INT x 3 and apply modifiers from the
Integration and Alienation Modifiers table. Consult
the Alienation Test table to determine the effects.

CONTINUITY TEST
Perhaps the biggest shock that strikes most resleeving
characters is the loss of continuity of self. This is par-
ticularly true for characters who died. If their cortical
stack was retrieved, they will remember their own
death. If they were restored from an archived backup,
they will not remember their death, but they will have
lost an entire period of their life—all the way back to
their last backup. In fact, if their body was not recov-
ered, they may not even know that they are dead for
certain—there may be a surviving copy of themselves
out there. The driving point in this loss of continuity is
a sort of existential crisis—they are no longer the origi-
nal person they once were. This leads some to question
whether they are who they think they are, or are they
some poor imitation and not a real person at all?
   To determine how this loss of continuity affects a
character, make a Continuity Test by rolling WIL x 3.
Every character suffers stress from loss of continuity,
as noted on the Continuity Stress table. Reduce this
stress damage by 1 point per 10 full points of MoS on
the Continuity Test, or increase it by 1 point for every
10 full points of MoF.

INFOMORPH RESLEEVING
Rather than resleeving into a physical body, a backup
may instead by instantiated as an infomorph, a purely
digital form. Infomorphs are distinct from backups in
that backups are inert files. Infomorphs are backups
imprinted onto a virtual brain template and run as
a program. This virtual brain state must be run on a
specific device and follows all of the rules noted for
infomorphs on p. 264. Infomorphs may copy them-
selves to other devices, typically erasing themselves
from the previous device as they go. Infomorphs that
copy without erasing are treated as forks.
  Characters instantiating as infomorphs must make
Continuity and Alienation Tests, just like resleeving.
  Infomorphs may be resleeved into physical morphs,
following normal resleeving rules.
