         I wake up with a taste like guava and umami
         fresh on my tongue. Last night there was laugh-
         ter. We drank quinoa wine, and I was introduced
         to people I had never met before, though I had
         years of intimate knowledge of most of them.
         Half of Illyria Module is curled naked around
         me in my sleeping chamber. Last night we
         made music with synthesizers, wood blocks,
         and a lur. We drank mushroom tea brewed in
         water from a rogue comet. Looking around me
         as the morning sun starts to light the far orbital
         horizon of Ceres, it appears we had an orgy.
         Last night was my resleeving party. This version
         of me—me 3.0—is ready for life.
         —Zheng du Thierry, Carnival of the Goat




FORKING AND MERGING
With all of these backups of transhuman minds on
file and an abundance of mesh space on which to run
them as virtual brains, one might wonder what's to
stop post-Fall transhumanity from multiplying its
numbers by running additional copies of them. The
short answer is: nothing, aside from massive social
stigma and thorny psychological issues. Taking a
backup of a transhuman mind, copying it, and re-
instancing it as an infomorph is called forking. It's one
of the most useful and still-controversial applications
of transhumanity's brain science.
   There are four classifications of forks: alpha, beta,
delta, and gamma. Though typically copied as info-
morphs, there is nothing preventing a fork from being
sleeved in a physical morph as well, other than legali-
ties and custom.

ALPHA FORKS
An alpha fork is an exact copy of the original ego,
re-instanced as a separate infomorph. An alpha fork
may be created by copying and running an infomorph
(from a backup, infomorph, synthmorph cyberbrain,
or directly from the cortical stack). Alpha forks are an
exact copy of the character's ego, with all of the same
skills, memories, stats, traits, personality, etc. New
alpha forks must make an Alienation Test (p. 272),
and possibly a Continuity Test (p. 272) if copied from
a backup.
   Creating alpha forks is illegal in many jurisdic-
tions, including most of the inner system and the
Jovian Republic. In others it tends to be viewed with
distaste, though there are some habitats/cultures in
which it is encouraged.

BETA FORKS
Beta forks are partial copies of the ego. They are
intentionally hobbled so as to not to be considered
an equal to the character, for legal and other reasons.
Beta forks have most of the same skills as the original
ego, though sometimes reduced. Their memories are
                        CONTINUITY STRESS
SITUATION                                               STRE
Backup from cortical stack
  Character remembers peaceful or not notable death   1d10 ÷
  Character remembers sudden or violent death
Backup from archive
  Short memory gap (less than 1 day)                  1d10 ÷
  Memory gap greater than one day
  Not knowing if/how you died
  Uploading-to-resleeve with continuity (p. 269)
  Uploading-to-resleeve without continuity            1d10 ÷
  Character is a fork


 also drastically curtailed, usually tailored to whatever
 task they are intended to perform.
   Beta forks are created by a process known as
 neural pruning (p. 274). They are legal and even
 common in many places, except for bioconservative
 holdouts like the Jovian Republic, though delta forks
 are more favored. Beta forks rarely have anything
 resembling civil rights or citizenship and are usually
 treated as the property of the originating ego. They
 are commonly used as digital aids or to represent the
 original ego when communicating with others over
 great distances.
   A beta fork's stats are determined as follows:

  - Reduce all aptitudes by 5 (to a minimum of 1).
    This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this re-
    duces LUC by 10 and INIT by 20.
  - Active skills have a maximum value of 60.
  - Moxie is reduced to 1.
  - The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster's dis-
    cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.

   Additional changes may apply as determined by
 the neural pruning test. Beta forks take 1 minute
 to generate.

 DELTA FORKS
Delta forks are extremely limited copies of an ego.
They are more akin to AI templates upon which
the ego's surface personality traits are imprinted.
Also created via neural pruning, delta forks are
highly functional (as competent as a beta fork or
AI) but have extremely limited skills and heav-
ily edited memories, usually to the point of being
functional amnesiacs.
   A delta fork's stats are determined as follows:

  - Reduce all aptitudes by 10 (to a minimum of 1).
    This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this re-
    duces LUC by 20 and INIT by 40.
  - Active skills have a maximum value of 40. The
    fork may have no more than 5 Active skills.
