 - Knowledge skills have a maximum of 80. The
   fork may have no more than 5 Knowledge skills.
 - Moxie is reduced to 0.
 - The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster's dis-
   cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.

  Additional changes may apply as determined by the
neural pruning test. Delta forks take 1 Action Turn to
generate.

GAMMA FORKS
More commonly known as vapors, gamma forks are
massively incomplete, corrupted, or heavily damaged
copies of an ego. Vapors are not intentionally cre-
ated and are instead the results of botched uploads,
scrambled backups, incomplete or jammed farcasts,
or infomorphs/forks that were somehow damaged or
went insane. It is extremely rare for anyone to pur-
posely create a vapor for anything other than research
use, although they can crop up in some interesting
places. For example, poorly made skill software occa-
sionally includes enough of the personality traits and
memories of the person the skill was taken from that
it can behave in a vapor-like fashion when used.
   Because vapors are anomalies rather than purpose-
ful creations, the characteristics of individual gamma
forks are left to the gamemaster. They should have
some or all of the following: reduced skills, reduced
aptitudes, incomplete or incoherent memories, nega-
tive mental traits, and persistent mental stress or trau-
mas, including derangements and/or disorders.

NEURAL PRUNING
Most forking is done on the fly—something comes up
that the character needs a fork for, so they whip one
up on the spot. Neural pruning is the art of taking a
backup/infomorph and trimming it down to size so
that it functions as either a beta or delta fork.
   Beta forks are created by taking a virtual mind state
that is intentionally inhibited and filtering a copy of
the ego through it. Like a topiary shrub, the portions
of the character's neural network that exceed the ca-
pacities of the intended fork are trimmed away. In ad-
dition to the changes noted under Beta Forks (p. 273),
characters may voluntarily choose to delete/decrease
skills and remove memories.
   Delta forks are created by excising the ego's surface
personality traits and applying them to an AI template.
In this case the ego's memories are usually excluded
entirely—it is easier to start with a blank delta fork
and feed them the specific memories/knowledge they
need. As with beta forks, characters making delta
forks may voluntarily choose to delete/decrease skills
and keep specific memories.
   Transhumanity's grasp of neuroscience extends to
scanning and copying a mind, but the most intricate
workings of memory are still imperfectly understood.
Making precise edits to individual portions of a neural
network (to alter recollections, skills, and the like) is
still a black art. The difficulty with neural pruning is
that taking a weed whacker to the tree of memory
isn't an exact science. Specific memories may not be
excised or chosen—at best, memories may be handled
in broad clumps, typically grouped by time periods no
finer than 6 months. For simplicity, most beta forks are
created by removing all memories older than 1 year.
   When creating a beta or delta fork, the character
must make a Psychosurgery Test (other parties may
make this test on the character's behalf, representing
that the character is giving them access to prune the
fork appropriately). If the character succeeds, the fork
is created as desired. If the test fails, the gamemaster
chooses one of the following penalties for every 10
full points of MoF. Some of these penalties may be
combined for a cumulative effect:

  - 1 additional skill decreased by –20
  - Fork acquires a Negative mental trait worth 10 CP
  - Fork suffers 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) mental stress
  - Extra memory loss (gamemaster discretion; beta
    forks only)
  - 1 Positive trait lost

NEURAL PRUNING WITH LONG-TERM PSYCHOSURGERY
Rather than generating forks on the fly, some char-
acters prefer to have carefully-pruned forks on hand,
stored as inert files that can be called up, copied, and
run as needed. These forks are crafted with long-term
psychosurgery, meaning that they suffer fewer draw-
backs and the memories may be more finely tuned.
  Long-term neural pruning requires a Psychosurgery
Test as above, but with a +30 modifier. Delta forks take
1 week to prune this way, beta forks take 1 month. Ad-
ditional modifications may be made to the fork using
any of the normal rules for psychosurgery (p. 229).
   It is worth noting that some people prefer to use
forks of themselves or loved ones rather than a muse.
Likewise, some wealthy hyperelites are known to keep
copies of their younger backups on hand, sometimes
for decades, and re-instance these when their prime
ego has enough skill and experience to completely
outclass its younger selves. Though technically these
are alpha forks, their lag behind the original ego is
comparable in degree to that of a beta fork. This is
rumored to be the method used by the Pax Familiae
in instancing her army of cloned selves.

HANDLING FORKS
Gamemasters are encouraged to allow players to ro-
leplay their character's own forks. It is important to
note, however, that even with alpha forks, once the
fork and originating ego diverge, they develop onward
as separate people. The events that shape the primary
ego's personality, character, and knowledge will not
happen—or even if they do, probably not in the same
way—to the fork, and vice versa. The exact dividing
line between an ego and a fork is a central philosophi-
cal and legal debate among many transhumans.
   This means that gamemaster should not be afraid
to pull a fork out of a player character's hands and
