 make them into an NPC if they start too diverge too
 greatly. Similarly, if a fork begins to learn information
 that the main character does not (yet) have access to,
 it is probably also better to run the fork as an NPC in
 order to avoid metagaming.
    It is entirely possible that a fork might decide that
 it will no longer obey the originating ego and carry
 about doing its own thing. This usually only occurs
 with alpha forks, who are essentially a full copy
 anyway, and as time passes the idea of merging back
 with the original ego becomes unappealing. Beta and
 delta forks are quite aware of their nature as “incom-
 plete” copies, and so usually return back home to the
 ego for reintegration. In rare cases, however, even
 these might make a break for life on their own.

 MERGING
   Merging is the process of re-integrating a previous-
ly-spawned fork with the originating ego. Merging is
performed on conscious egos/forks, transferring both
to a single, merged ego. The process is not difficult
to undergo when two forks have only been apart a
short time. As forks spend more time apart, though,
merging becomes a severe mental ordeal.
   To determine if merging goes well, a Psychosurgery
Test is called for (made either by the ego or another
character overseeing the process). The Merging table
lists modifiers for this test as well as the result of suc-
cess or failure.
   For synthmorphs, merging takes one full Action
Turn. For biomorphs, an ego bridge (p. 328) or mne-
monic augmentation (p. 307) is required to merge,
and the process takes 10 minutes.
   The result of the process is a unified ego, whether
or not the Merging Test succeeds. Psychotherapy (p.
209) and psychosurgery (p. 229) can troubleshoot bad
merges over time.



 EGOCASTING
 In spite of being a spacefaring civilization with out-
 posts throughout the solar system and beyond, tran-
 shumanity makes scant use of spacecraft for interplan-
 etary travel. Shuttlecraft using a variety of propulsion
 systems make regular trips between habitats, planetary
 surfaces, and moons. But for any trip longer than 1.5
 million kilometers—the distance a fusion drive craft
 can cover in a day—people egocast.


                                                        MER
TIME APART       MODIFIER SUCCESS
Under 1 hour         +30      Seamless ego with memories inta
1–4 hours            +20      Solid bond, memories intact
4–12 hours           +10      Memories intact, 1 SV
12 hours–1 day       +0       Memories intact, 2 SV
1 day–3 days         –10      Memories intact, 3 SV
3 days–1 week        –20      Memories intact, 4 SV
1 week+              –30      Minor memory loss, 5 SV
         THE SELF
         Forking and merging have changed the way
         transhumanity thinks about the self and what
         it means to have a well-integrated personality.
            While forking is child's play from a tech
         nological standpoint, the psychological and
         social effects of cloning a mind mean that
         most people are cautious about employing
         forks. Some jurisdictions ban forking outright
         for all but medical uses, while others have
         severe restrictions. In many hypercorp juris
         dictions, for instance, alpha forks are illegal
         and letting a beta fork run for more than 4
         hours without merging violates the modern
         descendants of 20th-century anti-trust laws
         Similarly, the Jovian Junta and other biocon
         servatives ban forking entirely.
            Disposing of unwanted forks is another
         thorny issue. In some places, it's as simple as
         deleting them, because a stored mind has no
         legal status. In others, a fork that doesn't wish
         to merge back with its originating ego might
         be accorded some rights, though these are
         generally only granted to alpha forks.
            Most significantly, though, running a short
         term fork of oneself for periods of an hour
         or less is an easy task for many transhumans
         Many people use forks of themselves to get
         work done in everyday life, and almost every
         one has at least experimented with forking at
         some point.
            Transhumans view forking a bit like early
         21st-century humans viewed drinking and drug
         use. A bit might be okay, but someone overdo
         ing it will be stigmatized. This is because most
         transhumans understand the psychological
         consequences of overusing forks.               ■



    Egocasting is transhumanity's most advanced
  personal transportation technology, though only the
  character's ego actually travels. Egocasting combines
  the technologies of uploading and quantum farcasting
  to transfer a backup (or sometimes even a conscious
  ego, see p. 269) over interplanetary distances.
    Though egocasting occurs at the speed of light,
  egocasting times vary drastically with distance.


ING
         FAILURE
m both   Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) – 1 SV
         Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) SV
         Minor memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) SV
         Moderate memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 2 SV
         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 2 SV
         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 4 SV
         Severe memory loss, 1d10 + 6 SV
