 make them into an NPC if they start too diverge too
 greatly. Similarly, if a fork begins to learn information
                                                                            THE SELF
                                                                            Forking and merging have changed the way
 that the main character does not (yet) have access to,
                                                                            transhumanity thinks about the self and what
 it is probably also better to run the fork as an NPC in
                                                                            it means to have a well-integrated personality.
 order to avoid metagaming.
                                                                               While forking is child's play from a tech
    It is entirely possible that a fork might decide that
                                                                            nological standpoint, the psychological and
 it will no longer obey the originating ego and carry
                                                                            social effects of cloning a mind mean that
 about doing its own thing. This usually only occurs
                                                                            most people are cautious about employing
 with alpha forks, who are essentially a full copy
                                                                            forks. Some jurisdictions ban forking outright
 anyway, and as time passes the idea of merging back
                                                                            for all but medical uses, while others have
 with the original ego becomes unappealing. Beta and
                                                                            severe restrictions. In many hypercorp juris
 delta forks are quite aware of their nature as “incom-
                                                                            dictions, for instance, alpha forks are illegal
 plete” copies, and so usually return back home to the
                                                                            and letting a beta fork run for more than 4
 ego for reintegration. In rare cases, however, even
                                                                            hours without merging violates the modern
 these might make a break for life on their own.
                                                                            descendants of 20th-century anti-trust laws
 MERGING                                                                    Similarly, the Jovian Junta and other biocon
                                                                            servatives ban forking entirely.
   Merging is the process of re-integrating a previous-
                                                                               Disposing of unwanted forks is another
ly-spawned fork with the originating ego. Merging is
                                                                            thorny issue. In some places, it's as simple as
performed on conscious egos/forks, transferring both
                                                                            deleting them, because a stored mind has no
to a single, merged ego. The process is not difficult
                                                                            legal status. In others, a fork that doesn't wish
to undergo when two forks have only been apart a
                                                                            to merge back with its originating ego might
short time. As forks spend more time apart, though,
                                                                            be accorded some rights, though these are
merging becomes a severe mental ordeal.
                                                                            generally only granted to alpha forks.
   To determine if merging goes well, a Psychosurgery
                                                                               Most significantly, though, running a short
Test is called for (made either by the ego or another
                                                                            term fork of oneself for periods of an hour
character overseeing the process). The Merging table
                                                                            or less is an easy task for many transhumans
lists modifiers for this test as well as the result of suc-
                                                                            Many people use forks of themselves to get
cess or failure.
                                                                            work done in everyday life, and almost every
   For synthmorphs, merging takes one full Action
                                                                            one has at least experimented with forking at
Turn. For biomorphs, an ego bridge (p. 328) or mne-
                                                                            some point.
monic augmentation (p. 307) is required to merge,
                                                                               Transhumans view forking a bit like early
and the process takes 10 minutes.
                                                                            21st-century humans viewed drinking and drug
   The result of the process is a unified ego, whether
                                                                            use. A bit might be okay, but someone overdo
or not the Merging Test succeeds. Psychotherapy (p.
                                                                            ing it will be stigmatized. This is because most
209) and psychosurgery (p. 229) can troubleshoot bad
                                                                            transhumans understand the psychological
merges over time.
                                                                            consequences of overusing forks.               ■


 EGOCASTING
 In spite of being a spacefaring civilization with out-                Egocasting is transhumanity's most advanced
 posts throughout the solar system and beyond, tran-                 personal transportation technology, though only the
 shumanity makes scant use of spacecraft for interplan-              character's ego actually travels. Egocasting combines
 etary travel. Shuttlecraft using a variety of propulsion            the technologies of uploading and quantum farcasting
 systems make regular trips between habitats, planetary              to transfer a backup (or sometimes even a conscious
 surfaces, and moons. But for any trip longer than 1.5               ego, see p. 269) over interplanetary distances.
 million kilometers—the distance a fusion drive craft                  Though egocasting occurs at the speed of light,
 can cover in a day—people egocast.                                  egocasting times vary drastically with distance.


                                                        MERGING
TIME APART       MODIFIER SUCCESS                                           FAILURE
Under 1 hour         +30      Seamless ego with memories intact from both   Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) – 1 SV
1–4 hours            +20      Solid bond, memories intact                   Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) SV
4–12 hours           +10      Memories intact, 1 SV                         Minor memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) SV
12 hours–1 day       +0       Memories intact, 2 SV                         Moderate memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 2 SV
1 day–3 days         –10      Memories intact, 3 SV                         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 2 SV
3 days–1 week        –20      Memories intact, 4 SV                         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 4 SV
1 week+              –30      Minor memory loss, 5 SV                       Severe memory loss, 1d10 + 6 SV
