Egocasting within a cluster or planetary system is
usually just a matter of minutes. Egocasting from the
sun to the Kuiper Belt, however, takes between 40 and
70 hours, and so egocasting all of the way across the
solar system can take even longer.
  Once an ego arrives at the destination receiver, it
can be archived, run as an infomorph, or resleeved
as normal.

EGOCASTER SECURITY
Beaming yourself across interplanetary space is a
mature technology and usually works seamlessly. Be-
cause egocasting uses quantum farcasters, there is no
danger of radio interference cooking the signal and
causing data loss. Normally the entire process is medi-
ated by the character's backup service, and security
breaches are uncommon.
   However, there are several risks involved in ego-
casting. The most obvious is that the character's con-
sciousness is transferred as a digital backup file at the
destination. If the egocaster on the other end is not
trusted or the networks at the destination are privately
controlled by the receiver, the character is potentially
putting themself at the mercy of their host. Most hy-
percorps consider meddling with a transmitted ego to
be a serious breach of etiquette, whereas autonomist
types would find it unthinkably repressive. However,
political extremist groups and criminal organizations
in control of egocasters suffer from fewer restraints.
   A more subtle risk is the possibility for hackers to
exploit security holes in the egocaster and its attached
virtual space to steal a fork of the character. This is
extremely difficult to do. It almost never happens
during a normal upload, because the uploading ser-
vices are security conscious to the point of paranoia.
Even so, the forks stolen by such attempts more often
than not end up being vapors, because the intruder
is usually stopped before a full copy can be obtained.
DARKCASTING
   Characters who want to egocast without the atten-
tion of public officials like Immigration and Customs
must seek out so-called darkcasting services—illegal
farcaster transceivers typically operated by criminal
syndicates and other clandestine groups. To locate
such a service, a character must use their Networking
skill and possibly their reputation (p. 285).



MORPH BROKERAGE
Morphs are a major commodity in transhuman society.
The technology and materials needed to grow new
morphs are cheap and abundant, though they take
time. Cloned biomorphs take at least a year and a half,
even with accelerated growth. Pods, which are typi-
cally pieced together from vat-grown parts, take about
6 months. Synthmorphs like cases and synths can be
produced in a day, whereas more complicated models
can take a week or more. Theoretically, supply will one
day outstrip demand to the point where flesh is free.
   Characters have several options for acquiring
morphs when they travel by egocast, suffer heavy
damage, or just feel like a new body. When egocasting,
the most common method for travelers of middling
means is to store their current morph in a body bank's
secure facility and lease a morph at their destina-
tion. Less commonly, characters may rely on public
resleeving facilities, or, if they have the means, they
may purchase a new morph outright. Characters who
expect to stay at their destination indefinitely or who
decide to resleeve but aren't traveling might instead
opt for a trade-in on their old body, leaving it behind
permanently in most cases.

MORPH AVAILABILITY
As noted under Resleeving and the Gamemaster (p. 271),
finding the model of morph you want is not always easy.
While many basic morph types (cases, synths, splicers)
