are generally available, characters can also locate new
morphs using their Networking skills (see Reputation
and Social Networks, p. 285). Certain morph types
are harder to find then others; the gamemaster should
apply an appropriate modifier for any morphs that seem
rare or unusual (for example, swarmanoids or reapers).
Likewise, some morphs may simply be unavailable in a
given locale. Rusters are rarely available off of Mars, for
example, while on Europa, most morphs are exotic local
aquatic varieties.
  The gamemaster determines which factions are able
to provide new morphs in a given locale. Factions
will not provide morphs that are unavailable to that
faction as starting characters. If the faction is not the
dominant one in that locale, a penalty should be ap-
plied, ranging from –10 to –30. Despite having a pres-
ence in a given locale, some factions may be unable to
provide morphs at all.
   If the character is seeking a customized morph with
specific implants or enhancements, the search will be
more challenging. The gamemaster should apply a –10
to –30 modifier here as well, depending on the extent
and legality of the modifications sought.

MORPH ACQUISITION
Once a morph is located, the character may call in
favors (p. 285) or pay credits for it. Morph costs are
noted on the Morph Costs table. In the inner system,
morph prices are often inflated by demand in the
market such that the most desirable morph types can
cost a small fortune. Outsystem, prices in rep are more
reasonable but still steep due to population pressures
on life support-dependent outer system settlements.
For travelers and frequent body hoppers, there are a
number of ways to defray these costs.

BROKERAGE AND MATCHMAKING
Finding morphs for travelers and the bodiless is a
 specialized skill demanding deep social networks and
a flair for negotiation. In general, it's a seller's market,
 so brokers (or “matchmakers,” as they're called in
the open economy) act as agents for the person seek-
ing a body. The Morph Costs table assumes a 10%
fee paid to the broker. Characters wishing to cut out
the middleman may reduce cost by 10% but take a
–30 penalty on their Networking Test to locate an
available morph.

CUSTOMIZED MORPHS
If a character seeks to have a customized morph (with
extra bioware, cyberware, or nanoware implants or
robotic enhancements), the costs for these enhance-
ments are added to the morph's cost (if the gamemaster
chooses, discount package deals may apply). Likewise,
morphs may come saddled with positive or negative
morph traits (p. 145). These traits raise or lower the
morph's cost at a rate of +500 credits per CP for posi-
tive traits, or –200 credits per CP of negative traits.
Negative traits typically reflect abuses the morph has
suffered at the hands of previous occupants.
                    MORPH COSTS
MORPH TYPE                                COST
Biomorphs
  Flats, Splicers                           High
  Octomorphs                         Expensive (30,000+)
  Furies, Ghosts, Remade             Expensive (40,000+)
  Futuras                            Expensive (50,000+)
  All others                              Expensive
Pods
  Workers, Pleasure Pods                    High
  Novacrabs                          Expensive (30,000+)
Synthmorphs
  Cases                                   Moderate
  Synths, Dragonflies                        High
  Slitheroids, Swarmanoids                Expensive
  Flexbots                           Expensive (30,000+)
  Arachnoids                         Expensive (40,000+)
  Reapers                            Expensive (50,000+)
Positive morph traits                  +500 per CP
Negative morph traits                  –200 per CP


 TRADE-IN
 For those who wish to leave their old morph behind
 permanently, trade-ins on current morphs are an
 option. The high demand for bodies means that a buyer
 is almost always available unless the gamemaster finds
 extenuating circumstances. Morphs may be traded in
 for the value shown on the Morph Costs table (ad-
 justed for any positive or negative traits), less a 10%
 physical exam and finder's fee. This is either paid to the
 morph broker in cred or rendered as a favor using rep.

  PATRON PROVISIONING
 Characters on missions for rich or influential patrons
 may have morphs provided for them. Normally
 such provisions are made for the duration of a job,
 although less commonly the morph itself might be
 payment for services rendered. Gamemasters are
 encouraged to be creative with such arrangements,
 though players should be advised that such bargains
 can quickly turn Faustian.

  BLACK MARKET MORPHS
 Black market body traders promise to provide the
 buyer with morphs and upgrades of choice regardless
 of a habitat's laws against weapons or implants, in
 addition to bypassing standard arrival registration
 via darkcasting. Illegal morphs usually come with a
 price markup (+25% at least), whereas used morphs
 with unsavory backgrounds (and traits) can usually be
 acquired on the cheap (–25%).

  INDENTURE
 Characters who find themselves too destitute to
 afford a new morph can strike a deal for indentured
 service—a “deal” that is rarely advantageous to the
