   new indenture. Typical contracts require years of in-
   dentured labor—terraforming Mars, herding comets,
   asteroid mining, constructing habitats, colonizing
   exoplanets, etc.—in exchange for a cheap synthetic
   morph or splicer at the end of the term. Gamemasters
   may use their discretion in offering such terms, though
   in many cases the terms offered will temporarily or
   permanently end the character's career as a free agent.
   Hypercorps using indentured labor are notorious for
   changing the terms at a whim, extending the service
   period, or slamming the indenture with a slew of
   hidden and outrageous charges that were not made
   clear up front. Characters may, of course, enter into
   such service fully intending to grab their morph and
   run at the first opportunity, but the hypercorps are
   very protective of their investments. Indentures are



 USTOM-GROWN OR
DESIGNED MORPHS
me people are very particular about their morphs.
 them, nothing “off the shelf” will do, even if it's
customized model tricked out with specific im-
ants, traits, and biosculpting. Instead, they desire
mething unique, something that must be specially
own or designed.
 n the case of biomorphs, this can mean several
 ngs. Usually it means that the patron desires a
ry specific set of genetic traits. This could be traits
 m their original genetic lineage, traits copied from
meone they idolized or honored, genes artfully
afted by a renowned genetic designer, or mystery
 its purchased at great expense from the Factors or
tracted from a lost TITAN lab. Alternatively, it could
ean the client seeks something more specific, such
 an exact duplicate clone of their original body.
While it is possible to put an existing morph in a
 aling vat and alter its genetics with metamorph-
g nanovirii in a matter of days, these procedures
e difficult and prone to disaster. In many cases, it
preferred to simply grow the desired clone from
 atch, though even with accelerated growth this
kes from 1.5 to 2 years (or 6 months to 1 year in
e case of pods). Nevertheless, some hyperelites
 ve taken steps to ensure that the morph they
 sire is available at all likely egocast destinations.
Though rarer, custom synthmorphs are sometimes
ught after, usually by people who wish to showcase
 ique or artistic robotic designs, but sometimes also
  engineers or agents who are field-testing proto-
pes. Assuming blueprints are available, such models
n be constructed in a matter of hours or days.
Aside from time, the largest barrier to custom and
 ique morph designs is typically cost. Ultimately it is
e gamemaster's decision on what expenses such mea-
 es entail—typically starting at Expensive and moving
 —or even whether they are possible at all.          ■
closely monitored and tracked, and the hypercorps are
not above sending ego hunters to retrieve a runaway.

PUBLIC RESLEEVING
Some locales, notably Titan, have a well-developed
public resleeving infrastructure intended to provide a
body to anyone who needs one. Morphs provided are
usually unremarkable cases, synths, or splicers with
no Positive traits or optional implants. Anyone hold-
ing citizenship in a locale with public resleeving may
apply for a body. Wait times are between a month and
two years, with Reputation influencing wait times at
the gamemaster's discretion.

RENTING MORPHS
For temporary visits where an infomorph won't do,
morphs may be leased rather than bought. The cost
to rent a morph is 1% of its cost per day, plus a Low
charge for resleeving. This cost includes rental insur-
ance (see below). If the rental insurance is waived
(not always possible unless you have a good Rep), the
rental cost may be reduced by half.
  Characters who are leasing a morph may also use
their previous morph as collateral. In this case, deduct
the cost of the character's current morph from the
rental morph before calculating the 1% cost per day,
with a minimal rental cost of 10 credits per day.

PENAL LEASE
Characters visiting the inner system or Jovian
Republic may be able to lease morphs belonging
to prisoners. In most jurisdictions, criminals are
sentenced to terms in rehabilitative simulspace with
a stipulation that the prisoner's morph becomes
state property during their term of incarceration.
Morphs acquired this way often have complicated
histories but also tend to have modifications useful
to Firewall agents. Conversely, characters who find
themselves imprisoned may be subject to having
their body leased out during incarceration.
  The effects of taking a penal lease are at the dis-
cretion of the gamemaster. A character may have
to pull some strings with their Reputation in order
to lease such a morph, especially if it has restricted
or illegal modifi cations. Negative traits, cases of
mistaken identity, and unfortunate encounters with
friends and associates of the morph's former oc-
cupant are among the possible drawbacks to this
type of arrangement. On the up side, penal leases
may reduce costs for both leasing and insuring the
morph, again subject to the gamemaster's discretion.

RENTAL INSURANCE
Leased morphs must be covered by an insurance
policy, which often restricts the character from
breaking the law or taking the morph anywhere
too dangerous or lawless. Characters may purchase
hazard insurance that will cover taking the morph
into certain dangerous situations, but this will
double the rental price at minimum.
