   If a character suffers extensive organic damage or
death while insured, the insurance will cover 80%
of the morph's cost, meaning that the character is
expected to pay the other 20%. If they cannot pay,
their possessions or their stored morph may be
seized in payment.
   If a character violates their insurance policy by
intentionally putting themself in harm's way above
the threat level at which the policy was purchased,
without first communicating with and rendering pay-
ment to the insurer, the policy may be declared void.
If the leased morph dies under a voided policy and
the character cannot pay to replace it, their posses-
sions and stored morph may be subject to seizure.
   Seizure takes different forms depending upon the
local economy and legal system. In hypercorp space,
it is a straightforward seizure of liquid assets, in-
cluding forced uploading if the character's morph is
seized. Elsewhere, the character is more likely to end
up owing a lot of favors or taking severe hits to their
reputation, but they are unlikely to undergo forced
uploading or outright physical seizure of their morph.



IDENTITY
Given the nature of resleeving technologies, identity
is a fluid concept in Eclipse Phase. Transhumans are
used to the idea of identifying people by how they
look or even by their biometric data, but this is no
longer a certified method. What you look like may
drastically change from one day to the next. You
may see an olympian you recognize, but perhaps it's
been awhile, so you're no longer certain that it's the
same person still in that morph. If you're sleeved in a
popular off-the-rack morph, there may be hundreds
of other cloned morphs that look exactly like you out
there—perhaps useful if you desire to blend in. Simi-
larly, security services can no longer rely on biometric
technologies. Forensics may be able to identify an indi-
vidual morph's presence at a crime scene, but proving
who was in that morph at the time is another matter.
   Identity is, of course, tied to ego, and various
authorities have instituted verification and security
measures based on this. Within the inner system, each
ego is given an ID number, which is used to validate
their identity, citizenship, legal status, credit accounts,
licensing, etc. This ego ID is verifiable by the person's
brainwave patterns, which remain the same even
when resleeving. When an ego uploads, the upload-
ing service is required to incorporate this ego ID into
the person's backup/infomorph. Likewise, when that
person resleeves, the service handling the procedure
is required by law to verify the ego's ID before down-
loading. The ego ID is then hardcoded into the morph
itself in the form of a nanotattoo on the tip of the per-
son's index finger. This nanotat can be easily scanned
at security checkpoints to verify identity.
   Though efficient, this system is far from perfect. For
one, ID record-keeping is far from standardized and
varies drastically from habitat to habitat. Most do not
share records with each other unless they are part of the
same political alliance in order to protect their citizens'
privacy. For example, Lunar-Lagrange Alliance stations
do not share citizenship ID data with the Planetary
Consortium, though they do share with each other.
  On top of this, many identity records were lost
during the Fall, a situation that was undoubtedly ex-
ploited by those who preferred to erase their past or
adopt a new persona. These all make for a situation
where identity records are patchwork at best. Officials
must also rely on the security of other habitats for ID
verification. If a person egocasts to Nectar on Mars
from Qing Long in the Martian Trojans, and the
Nectar officials have no record of this person, they
can only trust that the Qing Long officials did their
job when verifying the subject's ID and background.
  To make matters worse, many autonomist habitats
operate without identity checks altogether. Though
some ID measures are still used, both to prevent
reputation system gaming and to be able to identify
bodies in the case of death, these uses are significantly
more lax and few records are kept. Therefore, when
autonomists and the like egocast to habitats that re-
quire ID, they are assigned a temporary ID for the du-
ration of their stay (and sometimes any future visits).

IDENTITY VERIFICATION
There are three ways to verify someone's identity:
nanotat scan, brainwave scan, and checking the cryp-
tographic hash on a digital mind.

NANOTAT SCANS
Special encoded nanobots are used to create a small
nanotat on a person's index finger. These nanobots
contain encoded information that includes their name
and identity, brainwave pattern, citizenship/legal status,
credit account number, insurance information, and
licenses. Depending on the local habitat laws, it may
include other information such as criminal history,
travel history, restricted implants, employment records,
and so on. This nanotat may be read by anyone with
a special ID scanner that reads the nanobot encoding.
   ID nanotats include information on the company
that did the resleeving, so that the data may be ac-
cessed and verified with their records online. The data
on the nanotat is also cryptographically signed with
the company's public key, meaning that anyone who
checks the data and the signature online can tell if the
data has been altered.

BRAINWAVE SCANS
Brainwave scans are one of the few types of biometric
prints that stay with an ego no matter what morph it
is in. They are impractical for most security purposes
as they require a scan with a combination electroen-
cephalogram and neuroimaging device, referred to as
a brainprint scanner, which takes approximately 5
minutes. This device measures the subject's baseline
brainwave pattern as well as the subject's brainwave
signature responses when they think certain thoughts
