or sense certain patterns. These scans are all but
impossible to fool, however, barring hacking of the
brainprint scanner itself, and so are considered quite
reliable. For this reason they are occasionally used in
high-security facilities.
   It is worth noting that infection by some variants
of the Exsurgent virus, notably the Watts-Macleod
strain (p. 367), sometimes alters a person's brainwave
patterns, but not in every case.

DIGITAL CODE
Digital ID codes are often incorporated into backups and
infomorphs. Not only does this help identify who the
backup belongs to, but it serves as an electronic signature
for verifying ID when the backup is to be resleeved. This
digital code typically contains the same information as
the nanotat ID, and is signed with a cryptographic hash
that makes it difficult to forge and which can be verified
online. AIs and AGIs also feature such built-in codes.

CIRCUMVENTING ID CHECKS
Firewall sentinels and clandestine agents often have a
need to hide or alter their identities. While ID system
are challenging, they are not insurmountable.

FAKE IDS
The easiest way to bypass security checks is to establish
a fake ID. Given the patchwork nature of identity re-
cords and the lack of any centralized authority, this is
not very difficult. Numerous crime syndicates and even
some autonomist groups maintain a thriving ID fabrica-
tion business, often with complete histories and medical
covers for implants that might be restricted or illegal.
   These IDs are usually registered with habitats that are
either known criminal havens, have autonomist sym-
pathies, or are isolated and remote. Though the ID is
actually verifiable and registered with these stations, the
potential shady origins of such IDs is known to most
inner system authorities and so the character may be
exposed to extra scrutiny or monitoring. Fake IDs may
be acquired that are registered with more respected au-
thorities, but this often requires a much higher expense
or connections to hypercorp clandestine operations.
   Black market darkcast and resleeving options offer
fake IDs as a matter of course.

ALTERING NANOTAT IDS
Special nanobot treatments may be manufactured
to erase, rewrite, or replace nanotat IDs. Erasing a
nanotat is easy, but not having one is a crime and im-
mediate grounds for suspicion in many habitats. Re-
writing a nanotat is also easy, though this means that
the nanotat will fail its authorization online unless the
encryption has also been cracked (p. 253). Replacing
a nanotat ID with a fake one is just as possible, and is
part of the process of acquiring a fake ID.

DIGITAL ID TAMPERING
Digital ID codes may also be tampered with, though like
nanotat IDs this will mean that the ID fails online verifi-
cation unless the encryption is also defeated (p. 253).
LIFE IN SPACE
Transhumanity is not just a spacefaring race, it is
also largely space-dwelling. While a substantial por-
tion of transhumanity inhabits planetary bodies like
Mars, Luna, Venus, and the moons of the gas giants,
the balance live in a variety of space habitats, ranging
from the old-fashioned O'Neill cylinders of the inner
system to the Cole bubbles of the outer system.

SPACE HABITATS
Space habitats come in many sizes and configura-
tions, from survivalist outposts designed to support
ten or fewer people to miniature worlds in resource-
rich areas housing as many as ten million people. In
heavily settled regions of space, such as Martian orbit,
habitats may be integrated into local infrastructure,
relying to some extent on supply shipments from other
orbital installations.
   More commonly, especially in the outer system,
habitats are independent entities. This usually means
that in addition to the main space station, the habitat
is attended by a host of support structures, including
zero-g factories, gas and volatiles refineries, foundries,
defense satellites, and mining bases.
    Habitats—especially large ones—sometimes have
visitors, as well. Majors habitats are crossroads in
space. In addition to scheduled bulk freighter stops,
they may have hangers-on such as scum barges, pros-
pectors, or out-of-work autonomous bot swarms.
   Many habitats have some form of transportation
network. This is most common in large cylindrical
habitats with centrifugal gravity. Common solutions
for public transit include monorail trains, trams, and
dirigible skybuses. Common personal transit options
included bicycles, scooters, motorcycles, and micro-
light aircraft, with larger vehicles being uncommon
and usually reserved for official use.
   Most habitats with large interior spaces also use aug-
mented reality overlays to create consensual hallucina-
tions of a sky and clouds, to which most residents keep
their AR channels tuned. One would think that in space,
talking about the weather would have disappeared from
transhumanity's repertoire of small talk, but the habit
persists—only the weather discussed is usually virtual (if
it's not real “weather”—solar flare activity and the like).

CLUSTER COLONY
Clusters are the most common form of microgravity
habitat. Clusters consist of networks of spherical or
rectangular modules made of light materials and con-
nected by floatways. Typically business and residential
modules are clustered around arterial floatways and in-
frastructure modules such as farms, power, and waste
recycling. Limited artificial gravity areas may exists,
frequently parks or other public places and specialized
modules like resleeving facilities (morphs often keep
better when stored in gravity). Arterial floatways in
large clusters may have “fast lanes” where a constantly
moving conveyor of grab-loops speeds people along.
