   Clusters are most commonly found in volatile-rich environments
like the Trojans and the ring systems of the gas giants (particularly
Saturn). Clusters are rare in the Jovian system because shielding a
cluster of individual modules rather than one large station from
Jupiter's intense magnetosphere is hideously inefficient.
   Cluster colonies can have anywhere from 50 to 250,000 inhabitants.

COLE BUBBLES
Cole bubbles (or “bubbleworlds”) are found mostly in the main
asteroid belt, where the large nickel-iron asteroids used to construct
them are abundant. Bubbleworlds are less common in the Trojans
and Greeks, where crusty ice asteroids predominate. A Cole bubble
is similar in many respects to an O'Neill cylinder, but there are no
longitudinal windows. Sunlight instead enters through axial mirror
arrays. The bubbleworld is also constructed very differently, using a
large solar array to heat a pocket of water inside of a metal asteroid
so that the metal expands. Rotating the asteroid causes the mal-
leable material to form a cylinder, which is then capped off and the
water drained. The inside can then be pressurized, built out, and
planted. Cole bubbles can also be spun for gravity, according to the
whims of the inhabitants, though the gravity lowers as you near the
poles of the bubble, with zero gravity at the axis of rotation.
   Cole bubbles are among the largest structures transhumanity has
created in space. The largest Cole habitat, Extropia, has a popula-
tion of 10 million.

HAMILTON CYLINDERS
Hamilton cylinders are a new technology. There are only three fully
operational Hamilton cylinders in the system, but the design shows
great promise and is likely to be widely adopted over the coming
period. Hamilton cylinders are grown using a complex genomic
algorithm that orchestrates nanoscale building machines. These
nanobots build the habitat slowly over time, a process more like
growing than construction.
   Similar to O'Neill cylinders and Cole bubbles, a Hamilton cylin-
der is a cylindrical habitat rotating on its long axis to provide grav-
ity. Two of the known Hamilton cylinders orbit Saturn in positions
skimming the rings near the Cassini division. From this position,
they can graze on silicates and volatiles using harvester ships.
   None of the currently-operating Hamilton cylinders have grown
to full size yet, but estimates say they could each house up to 3
million people.

O'NEILL CYLINDERS
Found mostly in the orbits of Earth, Luna, Venus, and Mars, O'Neill
cylinders were among transhumanity's first large space habitat de-
signs. O'Neill cylinders are no longer built, having been replaced
by more efficient designs, but are still home to tens of millions of
transhumans. O'Neill cylinders were constructed from metals mined
on Luna or Mercury, Lunar volatiles (including Lunar polar ice),
and asteroidal silicates.
  A typical O'Neill habitat is thirty-five kilometers long, eight ki-
lometers in diameter, and rotates around its long axis at a speed
sufficient for centrifugal force to create one Earth gravity on the
inner wall of the cylinder. Smaller cylinders exist, though these
usually feature lower gravity (typically Mars standard). Cylinders
are sometimes joined together, end-to-end, for extra long habitats.
A spaceport is situated at one end on the rotational axis of the
cylinder (where there is no gravity). Arrivals by space use a lift or
microlight launch pad to get down to the habitat floor.
