   The inside of an O'Neill cylinder has six alternating
strips of ground and window running from one cap
of the cylinder to the other. One narrow end of an
O'Neill cylinder points toward the sun. The opposite
end is the mooring point for three immense reflectors
angled to reflect sunlight into the windows. Smart
materials coating the windows and reflectors prevent
fluctuations in solar activity from delivering too much
heat. The air inside the cylinder and its metal super-
structure provide radiation shielding.
   The land in most O'Neill cylinders is one-third
agricultural (a combination of food vats and high-
yield photosynthetic crops), one-third park land, and
one-third mixed use residential and business. O'Neill
habitats have a day and night cycle regulated by the
position of the external mirrors. The business and
residential sections of the cylinder usually alternate
with the park land over two of the strips of land;
cropland usually takes up the third. Bridges cross
the windows every kilometer or so, linking the land
strips. The interior climate, the architectural style of
the structures, and the types of vegetation and fauna
present vary with the tastes of the habitats' designers.
   Depending upon size, O'Neill cylinders can house
from 25,000 to 2 million people.

TIN CANS
Antique research stations and survivalist prospector
outposts often fit this description. Tin can habitats
are only a few notches up from the early 21st-century
International Space Station. Tin cans usually consist
of one or more modules connected to solar panels
and other utilities by an open truss. Deluxe models
feature actual floatways or crawlways between
modules, while barebones setups require a vacsuit or
vac-resistant morph to go from room to room. Food
growing capacity is severely limited and there may be
no farcasters, but fabricators are available, as well as
mooring for shuttles and perhaps prospecting craft.
  Tin cans rarely house more than 50 people.

TORUSES
Interchangeably called toruses, toroids, donuts, and
wheels, these circular space habitats were a cheap
alternative to the O'Neill cylinder used for smaller
installations. Like O'Neill cylinders, toruses are seldom
constructed anymore, but many are still encountered in
the inner system, particularly in Earth and Lunar orbit.
  A toroidal habitat looks like a donut 1 kilometer in
diameter, rotating on great spokes. There is a zero-g
spaceport at the wheel's hub. Visitors take a lift down
one of the spokes to the level of the donut, where
rotation creates one Earth gravity.
  The plan of toroidal habitats varies greatly, as many
were designed for specific scientific or military purposes
and only later taken over as habitats by entrepreneurs
or squatters. Many have a succession of decks in the
donut. Most of those designed for long-term self-
sufficient habitation have smart material-covered glass
windows for growing plants along much of the inside
surface of the torus. Toroidal habitats equipped for
farming normally face the sun in a direction perpen-
dicular to their rotational axis, but then use a slow pro-
cessional wobble of that axis to create a day/night cycle.
  Toruses were usually built to accommodate small
crews of 500 or fewer people, though some larger
ones exist, able to house 50,000. A few rare double-
toruses also exist, like two large wheels spinning in
opposite directions, joined at the axis.

IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
How characters gain entry to a habitat and what type
of screening they're likely to undergo depends upon
how they arrive. Some habitats are close to other
settlements, while others are physically isolated by the
vast, empty distances of interplanetary space.
   Habitats in dense planetary systems receive most of
their visitors via conventional space travel. Immigra-
tion and customs infrastructure is geared toward re-
ceiving visitors via their spaceport, and the processing
of arrivals is in most ways analogous to a twentieth
century airport. Isolated habitats, on the other hand,
tend to receive almost all of their visitors via egocast.

PHYSICAL ARRIVALS
Arrivals by spacecraft undergo, at minimum, an ego
ID check, scans to detect pathogens, hostile nanobots,
explosives, or radiation, and an inspection of their
personal effects. Some habitats go farther, including
rigorous secondary screenings using scout nano-
swarms, scans of all electronic systems for malware,
and/or aggressive interrogation of a fork of the subject.
Even autonomist enclaves enforce automated scans for
anything that might pose a danger to the habitat or
any signs of hypercorp saboteur efforts.
   Restricted goods vary according to local legalities.
Many habitats, particularly those controlled by auton-
omist or criminal factions, allow personal weaponry
as long as its nothing you can use to blow a hole in
the structure or indiscriminately kill dozens of people.
Others, notably the Jovian Republic and hypercorp
stations, disallow lethal weapons of all kinds, except
for people who have acquired special permits and au-
thorization (sometimes available by bribing the right
people or pulling favors with rep). Nonlethal weapons
are generally allowed. Other restricted items may
include nanofabricators, nanoswarms, malware and
hacker software, drugs and narcoalgorithms, certain
types of XP recordings, covert operations tools, and
so on. Certain types of morphs may also be restricted,
such as reapers, furies, or uplifts.
   Certain habitats may insist that visitors—or at
least the ones they don't like the looks of—submit to
specific forms of monitoring or surveillance for the
duration of their stay. This might include taggant
nanoswarms, hosting a police AI in your mesh inserts,
or even physical tailing by an armed security drone.
Other stations will require that their visitors leave a
fork as a form of collateral at the door—in case they
commit a crime, the fork can be interrogated.
