  Finally, though rare, some habitats go so far as to
charge all visitors an “air tax”—a fee for using the
station's publicly available resources while they are
present. This is generally only common in isolated
habitats with strained resources, and is considered
especially obnoxious by most autonomists.
   Some syndicates run a good business in smuggling
certain goods or even people into habitats. This is gen-
erally accomplished through bribed security personnel,
but is also sometimes handled as falsified credentials
that will allow the subject to breeze past security
checks. Such services are typically quite expensive.
  For those hoping to gain quiet and unobserved
access, there is always the option of taking a space-
walk and trying to break in through an unattended
airlock. Such attempts are quite often dangerous and
futile, as most habitats have dedicated sensor and
security systems to monitor their exterior surface and
in particular any access points. Still, it is a possibility
for a resourceful team with a skilled hacker, though
armed sentry bots are a particular danger.

ELECTRONIC ARRIVALS
Arrivals by egocast are sometimes interviewed by
habitat authorities in a simulspace before resleeving.
Depending upon the habitat's attitude toward civil
rights, this process can be relatively reasonable or
quite invasive. A minimal entry inspection includes an
ID check, a brief interview with a customs AI, and a
review of the specs of the morph into which the ar-
riving ego plans to resleeve. Habitats with draconian
immigration measures may use harsh psychosurgery
interrogation techniques on suspect infomorphs. Ego-
cast backups have little recourse to avoid this treat-
ment—station authorities can simply file them away
in cold storage if they choose—so it is wise to investi-
gate custom procedures before you send yourself over.
   Because many people, particularly autonomists and
brinkers, don't appreciate this kind of reception, vari-
ous uploading services have stepped in to provide pre-
customs resleeving for characters traveling to habitats
with suspect screening methods. For often-exorbitant
fees, the traveler egocasts into an extraterritorial sub-
station close to their intended destination, resleeves
there, and then travels to their destination by rocket.
   Various darkcast services, normally run by estab-
lished crime syndicates, sometimes offer an alternative
method of egocasting in and possibly even resleeving.
Darkcast services are quite expensive, however, and
the character is at the mercy of the syndicate opera-
tors. In rare cases, some political factions or even hy-
percorps might operate their own darkcast systems,
which a character with good networking skills might
be able to take advantage of.

SPACE TRAVEL
In some circumstances, characters will prefer to travel
physically through space rather than egocasting. In
Eclipse Phase, spacecraft are primarily dealt with as a
setting environment rather than a vehicle/gear to use.
Spacecraft largely pilot themselves via the onboard AI.
Though characters can also take over with their Pilot:
Spacecraft skill, the situation rarely calls for it.

LOCAL TRAVEL
In densely inhabited planetary systems such as Mars
and Saturn, most travel between cities, surface stations,
and orbital habitats within 200,000 kilometers is by
small hydrogen-fueled (or sometimes methane-fueled)
rockets. This form of travel is incredibly cheap, very
fast, and avoids the occasional personality glitches
that crop up during egocasting. LOTVs (lander and
orbital transfer vehicles, p. 348) are commonly used.
Spacecraft leaving a planetary body need to be able to
generate enough thrust to escape the gravity well (see
Escaping Gravity Wells, p. 346).

DISTANCE TRAVEL
For distances of 200,000 to 1.5 million kilometers,
somewhat larger (and more expensive) fusion- and
plasma-drive craft make regular runs. Nuclear electric
ion drives were once used on some of these routes,
but the poor efficiency of these fission systems and the
need for radioactive heavy metal reaction mass means
that they are almost never used anymore. Faster anti-
matter-drive couriers are also commonly used. These
ships lack the thrust to escape from the gravity wells
of large planets or moons, so they station themselves
in orbit and use smaller ships (typically LOTVs) with
higher thrust to transport people to and from the
planetary surface.
  For distances beyond 1.5 million kilometers, almost
everyone uses egocasting

SPACE TRAVEL BASICS
Spacecraft use various types of reaction drives (see
Spacecraft Propulsion, p. 347), meaning that they burn
fuel (reaction mass) and direct the heated output in
one direction, which pushes the spacecraft in the oppo-
site direction. Travel over any major distance typically
involves a period of high-acceleration burn for several
hours at the beginning of the flight, where up to half of
the reaction mass is spent to drive up the craft's veloc-
ity. The ship then coasts for the majority of the flight at
that speed, until it approaches its destination, where it
flips over and burns an equal amount of reaction mass
in the opposite direction to decrease velocity.
   Though some craft burn half their reaction mass
to get up to the best speed possible, this doesn't leave
much room for additional maneuvering or emergen-
cies. Many craft therefore only burn up to a quarter
or a third of their fuel in initial accelerations, so they
have some to spare in case they need it. A few tricks
can be used to save fuel and build speed, such as sling-
shotting around the gravity wells of larger planets or
aerobraking in a planet's upper atmosphere.
   Travel times between locations are constantly
changing as various bodies move in their orbits
around the solar system. Within a cluster or planetary
system, travel takes a matter of hours. Within the
