inner system, travel can take days or weeks. Travel to,
from, or within the outer system can take much longer,
and is usually a matter of several months.
  Most ships operate at zero-g, except for a few larger
craft that are able to spin habitat modules for low
gravity. Periods of high-acceleration also produce
temporary gravity in a downward direction, towards
the burn.
   Space is a valuable commodity on board spacecraft,
so room is often tight. Sleeping and personal quarters
are rarely bigger than large closets, just enough room
for a sleeping bag and personal effects. Depending
on the size of the craft, there may be a communal
recreation area. The crew tend to only be busy at the
beginning and end of a trip, when they must deal with
acceleration/deceleration and maneuvering around
other space traffic. The rest of the trip they spend
dealing with repairs or otherwise killing time, often
by accessing XP or VR simulations or playing AR
games. While spacecraft have their own local mesh
network, they are usually too far to interact with the
mesh networks of other habitats without significant
communications lag, so they must make do with
their own archive of entertainment options. Many
long-haul ships are crewed by hibernoid morphs, who
hunker down for a long nap.

SPACESHIP COMBAT
Combat in space tends to take place over long dis-
tances using massive beam weapons, railguns, and
missiles. It also tends to be nasty, brutish, and short.
Significant damage to a vessel can cause atmospheric
decompression, killing any biomorph crew who aren't
suited up and strapped down.
  For the most part, it is recommended that space
combat be treated as a plot device, part of the back-
ground story that helps create drama and tension,
rather than an event that characters actively partici-
pate in. This is not to say the characters cannot play a
role in the combat, or that their actions will have no
effect on the outcome. They may become involved in
damage control, negotiate with hostile forces, repel
boarders, target weapons with Gunnery skill, stage a
mutiny, attempt to hack the networks of approach-
ing vessels, escape out the airlock, hide out while the
pirates sack the ship, or similar affairs. It is recom-
mended, however, that gamemasters steer clear of
space combat situations that could easily lead to the
whole team dying due to a few bad dice rolls.



NANOFABRICATION
In order to create an object in a nanofabricator
(whether a cornucopia machine, fabber, or maker; see
p. 327), three things are needed: raw materials, blue-
prints, and time.

RAW MATERIALS
Raw materials are generally easy to acquire, as most
nanofabricators are equipped with disassembler units
that will break down just about anything into its con-
stituent molecules. Feedstock may also be purchased
(at a cost of Trivial). Many habitats route their recy-
cling and waste products directly into disassemblers.

BLUEPRINTS
Most nanofabricators are pre-loaded with blueprints
for general purpose items: food, simple clothing, basic
tools, etc. Blueprints for other goods may be acquired
in several ways:

 - They may be purchased online (legally or on the
   black market).
 - They may be found for free online (see below).
 - They may be acquired with Rep, following the
   usual rules for social networking (p. 285).
 - They may stolen (usually by hacking a mesh site
   or a nanofabricator containing such plans).
 - They may be self-programmed (see below).

  Once the blueprints are acquired, they are simply
loaded into the nanofabricator.

OPEN SOURCE BLUEPRINTS
Blueprints for many goods may be found for free
online, disseminated by an active open source
software movement. The availability of such plans
typically depends on the local mesh. In autonomist
habitats, a simple Research Test is likely to turn up the
open source blueprints you need (applying modifiers
for unusual items). In more restricted habitats, open
source blueprints may be harder to find, as they will
be securely hidden from the prying eyes of the authori-
ties. In this case, the character will need to use their
Rep to gain access, bribe a local hacker group, or do
something similar.
   Note that restricted nanofabricators may not accept
open source blueprints (see Blueprint Restrictions).

BLUEPRINT RESTRICTIONS
Some nanofabricators are equipped with pre-pro-
grammed restrictions not to accept blueprints for re-
stricted items (such as weapons) or non-licensed items
(such as black market or open source blueprints).
These restrictions may be circumvented by hacking
the nanofabricator and re-programming it, following
normal hacking rules (p. 254).

PROGRAMMING BLUEPRINTS
A dedicated character may simply decide to program
their own blueprints, though this is a time-consuming
endeavor. To do so, the character must make a Pro-
gramming: Nanofabrication Test with a timeframe of
one week per cost level of the item. For example, a
Trivial cost item takes 1 week, a Low cost item takes 2
weeks, a Moderate item 3 weeks, and so on. Academ-
ics: Nanotechnology skill or a skill appropriate to the
object's design may be used as a complementary skill
(p. 173) for this test. A fork or muse may also be as-
signed to such a programming task.
