TIME
Once the raw materials and blueprints are in, most nanofabrica-
tion is simply a matter of time. The exact timeframe to create an
object varies, but roughly approximates 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for Trivial, 2 for Low, 3 for Moderate, etc.). The
gamemaster may feel free to modify this period as appropriate for
the object.

THE PROGRAMMING TEST
Nanofabrication is typically handled as a Programming: Nanofab-
rication Test. In most cases, this can be treated as a Simple Success
Test (p. 118), with a failed roll simply indicating that the item has
some minor imperfections, or perhaps took longer to make.
   In some cases, the gamemaster may call for an actual Success Test,
meaning that failure is more of a possibility. This should only be
done for items that are exotic, extremely complicated, or for which
the blueprints are incomplete or otherwise suspect. This test can also
be made if the raw materials are limited.
   The character operating the nanofabricator can make this test or
it can be left up to the nanofabricator's built-in AI. Most such Such
AIs have a Programming: Nanofabrication skill of 30 (see AIs and
Muses, p. 331).



REPUTATION AND SOCIAL NETWORKS
“Once upon a time, there was a planet so incredibly primitive that its
 inhabitants still used money. That planet is called ‘Mars.'”
   —Professor Magnus Ming, Titan Autonomous University

   The conflict between market capitalism and other forms of eco-
nomics is one of transhumanity's last great culture wars, and it's
still being fought. Transhumanity's expansion into the solar system
created myriad opportunities to experiment with new economic sys-
tems. Many failed, but the reputation economies of the outer system
have proven both utilitarian and robust in a way that no previous
challenger to market capitalism has managed.
   The reputation economy, sometimes called the gift economy or
open economy, is one in which the material plenty created by nano-
fabrication and the longevity granted by uploading and backups
have removed considerations of supply versus scarcity from the
economic equation—destroying classical economics in the process.
   The regimented societies of the inner system and the Jovian
Junta have used societal controls and careful regulation of the
technologies of abundance on their populations, thus keeping to a
transitional economy system that is largely an outgrowth of classi-
cal economics. No one could get away with doing this in the outer
system. In the Trojans and Greeks, much of the belt, free Jupiter, and
anywhere outward from Saturn, the reputation economy rules.
   How did this happen? For one thing, money is a nuisance when
you're an autonomous member of an autonomous collective whose
nearest three neighbors (each 100,000 kilometers away) are also
autonomous collectives. All of you are almost completely self-
sufficient in terms of material resources. You have a fleet of robots
that harvest water, volatiles, reactor mass, metals, and silicates. You
have a nanofabricator to make all of your small items, a community
factory for large ones, and a machine shop where you can build
anything else—with help and advice from an AI with the combined
knowledge and experience of a top flight engineering team, if you
even need it. You grow your own food.
