  Money is for people who don't know how to take
care of themselves. Transhumanity is only a few de-
cades away from being a mature Type I Kardashev
civilization, having largely mastered the material
resources of its own solar system. A character from
the outer system most likely finds the whole concept
of money an embarrassment.
   However, material abundance hasn't eliminated
the value of certain goods and services. A transhu-
man's lunch might be free, but innovative ideas, new
designs, health care, sex, and dirty work don't grow
in fabricators. What if you need gene therapy on your
morph to grow infrared sensing cells on your face?
How about someone to assassinate your renegade
beta fork after she set off a hallucinogen grenade at
your gallery opening and kidnapped your boyfriend?
What if you really need a spanking? You call on your
social network. If your network is sufficiently deep
and numerous, and your reputation is good enough,
someone will help you out.
   In the inner system, the reputation economy doesn't
replace money for the exchange of goods and services,
but it does hold sway over the network of favors and
influence. Calling on contacts, getting information,
and making sure you're in the best place to see and be
seen all involve calling on your social network.

SOCIAL NETWORKS
Social networks represent the people you know, and
the people they know, and so on. It starts with your
friends and family, spreads out to your co-workers,
neighbors, and colleagues, and expands all the way
out to your acquaintances, from the neo-hominid
waitron at your favorite cafe to the sylph you flirt
with at the club. In the always-online, fully-meshed
universe of Eclipse Phase, this goes even further,
encompassing all of the people you've linked to via
social mesh networks, everyone who watches your
blog/lifelog/updates, and everyone you interact with
on various mesh forums. Now add in the friend-of-a-
friend factor, and everyone has an impressive ability
to reach out to people they know, people they sort of
know, and people you don't know but who are some-
how linked to you in one degree or another.
   Of course, social networks are not homogeneous.
Among the ever-diversifying ranks of transhumanity,
there is a tendency to coalesce around various shared
characteristics, whether those be cultural background,
personal interests, professional ties, local connections,
political affiliations, subcultural obsessions, or simply
common interest from being part of the same sub-
species clade. The social network of an info-anarchist
hacker is likely to bear little resemblance to that of
a hypercorp socialite or an isolate brinker. Neverthe-
less, social networks quite frequently overlap, often
in unexpected and interesting ways. Most people can
be considered members of several different types of
social networks. This overlap is what links disparate
groupings of transhumans together.
NETWORKING
Just being connected, of course, doesn't mean you have
several thousand idle transhumans at your beck and
call. If you hope to gather the latest gossip, get advice
from an expert, find someone who can fix your prob-
lems, acquire a piece of gray market tech, or spread a
meme, you need to know both who to talk to in that
social network and how to go about getting what you
need, especially if you hope to keep things quiet and
not raise any flags.
   This is where your Networking: [Field] skills come
in (p. 182). Networking represents your ability to ma-
neuver through this web of personal and impersonal
connections to find who and what you need. This
could be handled by word-of-mouth, posting the right
queries in the right places on the mesh, monitoring
the right personal profiles and forums, harnessing the
power of the mob with crowdsourcing, or any number
of similar creative tactics.
   Each field you have in Networking represents a
particular network grouping, a common interest that
ties people together. Most of these fields are based
on factions (Autonomists, Hypercorp, etc.) and tie
into a special reputation network (see the Reputation
Networks table, p. 287). At the gamemaster's discre-
tion, other groupings of people could be connected
through these skills and rep systems. For example,
artists and journalists of all stripes can fall under
the Networking: Media skill and f-rep, no matter if
they are autonomist or hypercorp. Likewise, being a
diverse group, brinkers do not universally fall into any
of the categories, and are instead spread out between
them. If the gamemaster and players agree, other
Networking fields and rep networks may be added,
representing other spheres of interest, such as AR
Games, Sports, Slash Fiction, etc.
   The exact uses for which you may exploit your social
networks are noted below. While in some cases the de-
fining element is who you know and how good you are
at reaching out to them, in others the defining element
is how known you are. You might be connected to
thousands of people, but if you don't have clout, your
efforts to make use of these connections is limited. This
is where Reputation comes into play.

REPUTATION
Reputation is a measurement of your social currency.
In the gift economies of the outer system, social repu-
tation has effectively replaced money. Unlike credit,
however, reputation is far more stable.
   Within Eclipse Phase, reputation scores are facili-
tated by online social networks. Almost everyone is a
member of one or more of these reputation networks.
It is a trivial matter to ping the current Rep score and
history of someone you are dealing with—your muse
often does this automatically, marking an entoptic
Rep score badge on anyone with whom you interact,
updated in real time, so you will see if they suddenly
take a hit or become popular. The 7 most common
networks are noted on the Reputation Networks
