 table. Gamemasters and characters may decide to add
 others appropriate to their game.
   You purchase a Rep score in one or more of these
 networks during character creation. Rep scores are
 rated between 0 and 99, just like skills. These ratings
 determine your ability to acquire goods, services, and
 information and favors, as noted below. These scores
 may be raised or lowered during game play according
 to your character's actions.

 USING NETWORKS AND REP
 In game terms, you take advantage of your connec-
 tions and personal cred every time you need a favor.
 A favor is broadly defined as anything you try to get
 via your social networks, whether that be information,
 aid, goods, and so on. Different types of favors are
 described under Favors, p. 289.

 THE NETWORKING TEST
 To pursue a favor, you start by looking around. This
 calls for a Networking Test to determine if you can
 find the person, people, or information you need.
 This represents talking to people you know, spread-
 ing the word to people they know, posting queries to
 the social network at large, digging through various
 profiles, chat rooms, etc. to find someone who might
 help you out, and so on.
    Networking Tests are subject to modifiers for the
 level of the favor (see below), the amount the char-
 acter is trying to keep quiet about the request (see
 below), and any other factors noted on the Network-
 ing Modifiers table or determined by the gamemaster.
    Networking Tests are Task Actions—it takes time
 to call in favors or track down information. The time-
 frame depends on the level of favor, as noted on the
 Favors table, p. 289.



                                          REPUTATIO
NETWORK NAME                   REP NAME           NETWORKIN
The Circle-A List              @-Rep              Autonomists
CivicNet                       c-Rep              Hypercorps
EcoWave                        e-Rep              Ecologists
Fame                           f-Rep              Media
Guanxi                         g-Rep              Criminals
The Eye                        i-Rep              Firewall
Research Network Associates r-Rep                 Scientists



       NETWORKING MODIFIERS
             SITUATION                      MODIFIER
    Favor level exceeds Rep level          –10 per level
    Rep level exceeds favor level          +10 per level
            Keeping quiet              –Variable (see p. 288)
             Burning Rep               +Rep amount burned
             Paying extra                  +10 per level
  FAVOR LEVELS AND MODIFIERS
  Rep scores are broken down into five levels, reflecting
  your standing within that community. Every 20 points
  of Rep equals one level. See the Reputation Levels
  table for a breakdown.
     Likewise, favors are also broken down into five
  levels, rated from Trivial to Scarce (see Favors, p. 289,
  for specific examples). The standard level of favor
  you can expect to get from a social network is based
  on your level of Rep in that network. If you want to
  pursue a favor above your level, you can do so, but
  you will suffer a negative modifier on your Network-
  ing Test. This reflects that someone with low standing
  has a hard time getting people to go out of their way
  for them. Similarly, if you pursue a favor below your
  level, you receive a positive modifier to your Network-
  ing Test, reflecting that your prestige makes it easier to
  acquire minor things that you need. For each level the
  favor falls under or above your Rep score level, apply
  a + or –10 modifier, as appropriate.


      Jaqui's on a scum barge and she needs to get a
      hold of a weapon fast. She has a specific weapon in
      mind, but it's pricey—its cost is High. She decides
      her best approach is to try talking to the scum on
      the ship to try and find someone who can lend or
                                                                EXAMPLE




      sell her such a weapon, using her @-rep and her
      Networking: Autonomist skill of 50. Acquiring a
      High cost item counts as a Level 4 High favor (see
      Acquire/Unloads Goods, p. 289). Jaqui's @-rep
      is 53, which is only Level 3. Since the favor is one
      level higher than her rep level, she suffers a –10
      modifier on her Networking Test. Jaqui must roll a
      40 or less (50 – 10) to find a weapon supplier.




NETWORKS
ELD       FACTIONS AND OTHERS
          anarchists, Barsoomians, Extropians, Titanian, and scum
          hypercorps, Jovians, Lunars, Martians, Venusians
          nano-ecologists, preservationists, and reclaimers
          socialites (also artists, glitterati, and media)
          criminals
          Firewall
          argonauts (also technologists, researchers, and scientists)


             REPUTATION LEVELS
        REPUTATION SCORE                      REPUTATION LEVEL
                 0–19                                 Level 1
                20–39                                 Level 2
                40–59                                 Level 3
                60–79                                 Level 4
                80–99                                 Level 5
