PAYING/EXCHANGING FOR FAVORS
Favors don't necessarily come for free. Depending on
what you're after, you may also need to exchange for it.
  In the capitalist and transitional economies of the
inner system and Jovian Junta, you may need to buy
the goods or services you are after with credit. Even in-
formation might be paid for by bribing the right person.
Once spent, that credit is gone until you earn more.
  In the anarchistic reputation economies of the outer
system, you can get what you need for free. In this
case, you are acquiring goods and services based on
the strength of your reputation.


           Jaqui rolls a 39—she makes it! After posting some
           public notices on the scum social network (she's
           not worried about legalities or hiding what she's
 EXAMPLE




           doing—this is a scum ship after all), she gets di-
           rected to a weapons dealer with a good rep. While
           a scum arms merchant normally sells their wares
           for credit, Jaqui is scum herself, so she's able to use
           her scum community standing and get the weapon
           for free. This uses up a High favor, however.


THE LIMITS OF REPUTATION
Even in the gift economies, reputation only gets you so
far. There are limits to how often you can ask for help
before you start coming across as pushy or a leech. In
game terms, this is expressed as a refresh rate—the
amount of time you must wait to pass before you can
seek out a favor of that level again without seeming
demanding. Refresh rates are noted on the Favors
table (p. 289).
   If you need to seek another favor before the refresh
rate has expired, you have two choices. You can
expend a higher level favor instead, keeping in mind
that higher level favors refresh more slowly. Alterna-
tively, you can burn reputation (see below).


           Now that Jaqui's got her weapon, she needs
           another favor—she needs to find someone who
           doesn't want to be found. The person she's after is
           scum, so once again she turns to the scum for help.
           The gamemaster decides that this is another Level
           4 favor (see Acquire Information, p. 291). Once
           again, with her Networking: Autonomist of 50 and
           Level 3 rep, she must roll a 40 or less. She gets a
 EXAMPLE




           21, and finds someone who has the information
           she needs.
              Jaqui now has a choice. To get this information,
           she either needs to pay the person in credits (a
           High cost) or she she needs to expend another
           Level 4 favor. She's low on money, so she decides
           to use her rep again. Level 4 favors only refresh
           once a month, though, and Jaqui used her last one
           just a few hours ago. Her only choice is to expend
           a higher favor, so she expends a Level 5 to get the
           intel she needs.
BURNING REPUTATION
In some cases, getting what you need may be more
important than not stepping on people's tentacles. In
situations of dire need, you can burn some of your
Rep score to get the job done, meaning that you ex-
change a loss of Rep for a shot at a favor. This reflects
that you are pushing the bounds of how far people are
willing to go for you. While you still might get what
you need, your online reputation rating takes a hit as
people flag you for being needy.
   There are two reasons to burn Rep score. The first
is to get a bonus on your Networking Test. This indi-
cates that you are pulling strings and calling in mark-
ers to get the favor you're after. This is particularly
useful when you are trying to obtain a favor that's of
a level higher than your Rep, but abuse it too often
and you will soon have no social standing at all. Every
point of Rep you burn gives you an equivalent posi-
tive modifier on the Networking Test, up to a maxi-
mum of +30.
   The second option is to burn Rep to seek a favor
before it has refreshed. This reflects that you are asking
for too much in a short period. The amount of Rep
you must burn in this case depends on the level of favor
you are seeking, as noted on the Favors table (p. 289).


  Jaqui's got her weapon and her target's where-
  abouts, but she needs one more thing: a hacker.
  She needs someone who can open some doors
  and defeat some security systems so she can get
  to the target she's after in his hideout. Since she's
  on a scum barge, Jaqui feels that, once again, her
  best option is to work her scum contacts. The
  gamemaster determines that this will be another
  Level 4 favor. Rolling against a target number of
                                                          EXAMPLE




  40 again, she gets a 13—her luck is holding.
     She finds a hacker, but now she needs to make
  an exchange for their services. Once again she
  decides not to spend credit and use her @-rep
  instead. Jaqui's already used up both her Level 4
  and Level 5 @-rep favors, though, so she has no
  choice but to burn reputation. A Level 4 favor costs
  10 Rep to burn. Jaqui spends it, sending her @-rep
  from 53 to 43—she's been pulling in a lot of big
  favors in a short amount of time, and her friends
  and acquaintances are expressing their annoyance
  by lowering her social standing.


KEEPING QUIET
The problem with using social networks for favors is
that you end up letting lots of other people know what
you're up to. When you're involved in a clandestine
operation, that could be exactly what you don't want.
The only way to diminish this is to take your requests
to trusted friends and ask them to keep quiet, but this
diminishes the pool of people at your disposal.
