   In game terms, you can try to keep word of what
 you're doing quiet, but this makes it harder to get
 what you need. For every negative modifier you apply
 to your Networking Test, the same negative modifier
 applies to anyone making a Networking Test to find
 out what you're up to.


              Revisiting one of our previous examples, we go
              back to the point where Jaqui was trying to
              ascertain someone's hideout location. Because
              the person she's after is scum, they're on a
              scum ship, and Jaqui is using her Networking:
              Autonomist skill to find them, there's a good
              chance that if she starts asking around to ev-
              eryone, word might trickle back to the person
              she's after. She doesn't want them to know
              she's on their tail, though, so she decides to
   EXAMPLE




              make her inquiries more discreet. She applies
              a –20 modifier to her Networking Test, which
              lowers her target number from 40 to 20. As
              noted before, she rolls a 21, which is a fail-
              ure. She spends a Moxie point to flip the roll,
              though, making it a 12—a success.
                Because Jaqui took that –20 hit, represent-
              ing the fact that she was keeping her research
              quiet, her target will suffer a –20 modifier
              when he makes his Networking Test to see if
              he gets word that someone is asking around
              about his hideout.


 FAVORS
 Creative players can undoubtedly come up with many
 uses for their social networks, but a few of the more
 common are detailed here.
   Gamemasters should use their discretion as to how
 much roleplaying interaction and Networking Tests
 are included in using a social network. For normal
 goods, straightforward information queries, or small
 favors, neither dice rolling nor roleplaying may be re-
 quired. For major requests, interactions with contacts,
 and mission assistance, dice rolls and/or roleplaying
 interaction with contacts from the social network
 should usually occur. Gamemasters may wish to keep
 track of the NPC contacts in each character's social
 networks and make them recurring characters.




                           FAVORS
                                     BURNING
FAVOR LEVEL          TIMEFRAME       REP COST REFRESH RATE
1 (Trivial)             1 minute         0           1 hour
2 (Low)                30 minutes        1            1 day
3 (Moderate)             1 hour          5           1 week
4 (High)                 1 day          10           1 month
5 (Scarce)               3 days         20          3 months
 ACQUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS
Social networks are a good way to find items that
you can't buy legally or make at home. Depending
on who you're getting the goods from, this will cost
you credit or require an appropriate Rep score. This
favor can also be used to sell or give away such items,
making some money or perhaps even some Rep in
the process.


      ACQUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS
LEVEL   SERVICE
  1     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Trivial.
  2     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Low.
  3     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Moderate.
  4     Acquire/unload item with an expense of High.
  5     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Expensive



 ACQUIRE SERVICES
When you lack the skills or education you need, or
you just need another set of arms, you can call out
to your social network to find someone to help you
out. If you are looking for someone with a particular
skill, the result of your successful Networking Test roll
is the skill rating of the person you find. The higher
your Networking skill, the better able you are to find
highly-skilled professionals.


   Cole needs to find an astrobiologist who can help
   him identify an alien critter. He rolls his Network-
   ing: Scientist skill of 50 and gets a 43—a success.
                                                          EXAMPLE




   He tracks down someone with Academics: Astro-
   biology skill of 43 (his roll) who can help him out.
   When the astrobiologist looks the critter over, the
   gamemaster makes a roll for the NPC using that
   skill of 43.


 ACQUIRE INFORMATION
When you can't find the information online or you
don't have the time or capability to look, you can
turn to people in your social network and tap their
accumulated knowledge base.

 REPUTATION AND IDENTITY
It is important to note that reputation is closely tied
to identity. If you are undercover and using a fake ID,
you can't really call on your Rep score without giving
yourself away. As a result, many people using false
identities end up building up a separate set of Rep
scores for their alter ego.
   Note that since many social network interactions
take place online, it is possible for someone to secretly
make use of their real identity while masquerading
as someone else, as long as they're careful about it. If
anyone happens to be spying on their activity via the
mesh, they stand a chance of being found out.
