SECURITY
Firewall sentinels make a regular habit of being in
places where they are not supposed to be and bring-
ing things with them that others would prefer they
not have. Security has a different character post-Fall
than in the 21st century. Due to hyper-abundance,
physical security measures such as locks, doors, and
walls are less important than in the past to common
citizens. People don't worry about theft as much as
in the past because most items can be replaced by a
nanofabricator. The items that do tend to engender
this type of security are irreplaceable or rare items
such as artifacts of Earth.
   Post-Fall physical security focuses heavily on
surveillance—identifying intruders and tracking
them so that they can be interdicted by transhuman
or robotic defenders. Surveillance is more effec-
tive than in pre-Fall societies because AIs with
near-human faculties of pattern recognition and
indentured infomorphs can be employed to monitor
surveillance data.
  The emphasis on surveillance results from the ease
with which most material barriers can be breached
by high-powered hand weaponry and devices like
the covert operations tool (p. 315). However, physi-
cal barriers designed to actively resist intruders by
healing themselves or attacking tools used to damage
them are used at key points in secure installations.
Such barriers are typically very expensive and so are
used sparingly.
  Transhuman, animal, and infolife defenders are
cornerstones of most security systems. The avail-
ability of a huge pool of infomorph labor to guard
facilities means that someone is always on duty,
whether as part of the surveillance system or in a
robotic shell.

ACCESS CONTROL
The first step in any security system is simply to enact
measure to keep unwanted people out. At a basic level
this involves walls, locks, fencing, defensive landscap-
ing, security lighting, and entoptic warnings.
   Barriers of different sorts present an obstacle that
must be cut through or blown apart in order to
defeat. Barriers are treated just like other inanimate
objects for purposes of attack sand damage; see Ob-
jects and Structures, p. 202.

BUG ZAPPERS
Bug zappers create minute EMP pulses that are harm-
less to most electronic equipment and implants but
wreak havoc on nanobot swarms, microbugs, and
specks. Bug zappers are generally applied to surfaces,
and as such they only destroy floating/flying swarms
or specks if they land. In areas with heavily shielded
electronics, they may be installed to destroy targets
in an entire room. A zapper instantly destroys all
free-crawling or flying nanobots and specks in a room
when it goes off, but transhuman flesh is sufficient to
prevent it destroying medichines or other implanted
nanobots. Infiltrators trying to gather data in areas
protected by zappers generally resort to going around
them or trying to plant macroscale devices.

ELECTRONIC LOCKS
Electronic locks (e-locks) are commonly used as a
means of maintaining privacy. They are easy to defeat,
however, and so are rarely used in very secure areas.
E-locks have several advantages over old-fashioned
mechanical locks. Different users can have different
authentication methods, they can log all events (entry,
exit, failed authentications), and they can be con-
nected (usually hardwired but sometimes encrypted
wireless) to security systems for remote control and
alarm triggering.
   E-locks use one of several authentication systems,
or sometimes a combination of systems:
   Biometric: The lock scans one or more of the user's
biometric prints. Common biometrics include DNA,
facial thermographic, fingerprint, gait, hand veins, iris,
keystroke, odor, palm, retinal, and voice prints.
   Keypad: This is an alphanumeric keypad upon
which users enter a specific code. Different users can
have different codes.
   Token: Authorized users must carry some sort of
physical token that interacts with the lock to open the
door, such as a keycard, electronic key, etc.
   Wireless Code: Users must emit a cryptographic
code via near-proximity wireless signal.
   Though various technologies exist to defeat each
of these systems, there are three methods that work
against almost all e-locks. The first is use of a covert
operations tool (p. 315), which infiltrates a lock with
nanobots that swarm in and engage the electronic
mechanism. The drawback to using a COT is that its
use is immediately logged by the e-lock and an alarm
is triggered. Some e-locks are equipped with guardian
nanoswarms (p. 329) to defeat COTs, but the COT
nanobots usually manage to open the lock before the
guardians eat them.
   The second method is to hack the e-lock. Most
e-locks are slaved to a security system, so this often
means intruding into the security system and then
opening the lock from within. This can be difficult,
however, especially if the security system is wire-
lessly isolated or hardwired. The advantage is that,
if done right, all evidence of the lock being opened
can be erased.
   The third method is to physically open and ma-
nipulate the lock. This requires first opening the
lock's case and then triggering the lock mechanism
to open the door. Both of these are handled as
separate Hardware: Electronics Task Actions with
a timeframe of 1 minute each. In addition, most e-
locks have anti-tamper circuits that will set off an
alarm if the attacker does not achieve an Excellent
Success when opening the case.
