LOCKBOTS
The 21st century saw a move from mechanical
locks to e-locks and other largely electronic locking
mechanisms. These devices worked well for about
50 years, until electronic infi ltration capabilities
rendered them largely useless. The more recent de-
velopment of lockbots has more in common with
their early mechanical forebears. They are unique,
expensive, artisan items.
   A typical lockbot is heavily integrated with the
portal and barrier it protects. Lockbots usually
include an AI or indentured infomorph, self-healing
materials (treat as a self-healing barrier), and a
swarm of guardian nanobots (p. 329). A lockbot
monitors its surroundings and has visual recogni-
tion software that knows what its users and its keys
look like (Perception skill 40). Picking a lockbot is
thus incredibly difficult, because it will shut its ori-
fice and not accept a key that doesn't look right or
that comes from an unrecognized user. Unfamiliar
nanobots trying to enter the orifice are targeted and
destroyed by the guardian nanobots. Finally, exter-
nal tools used to harm the portal or the lock will be
attacked by fractal appendages extruded from the
portal surface or the lock itself. These appendages
have a range of 1 meter, attack with skill of 40, and
inflict 1d10 +2 DV.
   Lockbots are generally immune to being hacked
because, for security, they aren't connected to
the mesh. If attacked, however, lockbots are pro-
grammed to send out an alarm signal via the mesh.
   There are several ways to defeat a lockbot. One
is to get a copy or image of the key and then forge
a copy (using nanofabrication). Another is to attack
the lockbot or the portal it guards with so much
force that the lockbot is unable to repair it (usually
using ranged weapons, as anything within a meter
of a lockbot may be counterattacked). A third is to
somehow image the cavity beyond the lockbot's ori-
fice without the imaging device being destroyed and
to then forge the key. All of these are difficult and
time-consuming processes.
   Some lockbots have the ability to destroy what
they're protecting. For example, lockbots are a
common protection for the physical interfaces to
hardwired networks. If the lockbot is compromised,
it may, as a last resort, destroy the interface it was
protecting.

PORTAL DENIAL SYSTEM
Installed in corridors or doorways, this is essentially
a laser trap device. When an unauthorized person
enters the portal denial system's area, it uses lasers
to create a grid of plasma channels that are used to
deliver a powerful electric current to the target. This
system has both lethal and nonlethal settings.
  Nonlethal: 1d10 DV + shock (p. 204)
  Lethal: 2d10 +5 DV
SELF-HEALING BARRIERS
Walls and doors that are able to rapidly repair them-
selves are sometimes found in high security instal-
lations. These barriers are made of materials that
automatically expand to “heal” small holes and that
are equipped with nanosystems that slowly repair
larger amounts of damage. The best of these barriers
do no more than slow down the most determined
assailants, but in combination with surveillance sys-
tems they are a nuisance to invaders and can slow
down attempts to flee the scene.
   Self-healing barriers heal any single source of
damage that is less than 5 points of damage almost
immediately, sealing the hole in 1 Action Turn. They
will also seal the holes infl icted by a covert ops
tool (p. 315) in the same time period. Additionally,
these barriers repair larger themselves at the rate of
1d10 damage per 2 hours; once all damage is fixed
any wounds are repaired at the rate of 1 per day.
Damage of 3 wounds or more may not be repaired
by self-healing.

SLIPPERY WALLS
On planetary surfaces, high walls and fences are still
common as a first line of defense against interlop-
ers. Slippery walls are surface treated with the slip
chemical (p. 323), creating a virtually frictionless
surface that is exceptionally difficult to climb.

WIRELESS INHIBITORS
Wireless inhibitors are simple paint jobs or construc-
tion materials that block radio signals. They are
used to create a contained area in which a wireless
network may operate freely without worry that the
signals will escape out of the area, where they can
be intercepted. Wireless inhibitors allow the conve-
nience of using wireless links within a secure area
rather than the clumsier hardwired connections. If
an intruder manages to gain access inside the area,
however, they can intercept, sniff, and hack wireless
devices as normal.

DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE
Should security measures fail to keep an intruder
out, the second step is to detect an interloper and
track their activity.

NANOTAGGING
A lot of post-Fall security centers not around keeping
people out of private spaces, but tracking them after
they come and go. What little privacy transhumans
have, they cherish. Trespassing is a worse offense
than theft in many places.
  A room protected by a taggant nanoswarm (p. 329)
usually has two or more hives, one each at floor and
ceiling level (if in gravity; on the opposite side of the
room if in microgravity) that generate and recycle
nanobots. The taggants emerge from one hive, float
through the room, and then return to the other for
recharging and reuse. A feed line usually connects the
