hives so that they can share materials and power.
   Anyone passing through the room is likely to be
dosed with taggant nanobots. Once they lose proxim-
ity to the rest of the hive, they hide and periodically
broadcast pulsed transmissions meant to give their po-
sition to pursuers or investigators. Some may drop off
in clusters to form a breadcrumb trail to the interloper.

SENSORS
Any of the various sensors described in the Gear
chapter (p. 294) may be deployed within a facility
to monitor and record the passage of personnel,
both authorized and not. These sensors are typically
slaved to the facility's security network and closely
monitored by security AIs, meaning they are vulner-
able to hacking and possibly jamming. A few other
sensor types deserve mention here:
   Chemical Sniffers: The chem sniffer described on
p. 311 can also be set to detect the carbon dioxide
exhaled in transhuman breaths. This is useful for
detecting intruding biomorphs in areas that are
abandoned/off-limits.
   Electrical Sensors: Electrical sensors can be set in
portals to detect a biomorph's electromagnetic field
in addition to the electrical fields of synthmorphs.
   Heartbeat Sensors: These sensitive sensors detect
the vibration caused by transhuman heart beats.
They can even be used to detect the heartbeats of
passengers inside a large vehicle.
   Seismic Sensors: Embedded in flooring, these sen-
sors pick up the pressure and vibration of weight
and movement.

WEAPON SCANNERS
Weapon scanners come in several varieties, includ-
ing those that look for the rare elements used in
extremely destructive weapons such as nukes, those
that attempt to locate personal weaponry, and those
that look for detection taggants.
   Rare element scanners are nearly flawless and are
ubiquitous in habitat customs and spaceports. The
only way to circumvent them is to find an alternate
route into the protected area.
   Personal weapon scanners can monitor a specific
area, such as a small room or doorway. They use
a number of sensing systems to detect and identify
weapons and other dangerous objects, including
chemical sniffers and radar/terahertz/infrared/x-ray/
ultrasound imaging. They can detect the following
items and substances:

 - Metal used in kinetic weapons, seekers, and
   flechette weapons
 - Devices with onboard hives of metallic nano-
   bots (e.g., covert operations tools, spindles)
 - Magnetic elements in plasma guns and railguns
 - Propellant from firearms ammunition and seek-
   ers (–30 to conceal)
 - Chemical fuels used in torch spray weapons
   (–30 to conceal)
 - All explosives and grenades by their chemical
   particulate emissions (–30 to conceal)
 - Poisons and bioagents in flechette weapons
 - Any weapon or device larger than palm size
   (using sound waves and shape recognition)

  Characters trying to sneak weapons and gear past
personal weapon scanners must make a Palm-
ing Test (if concealing) or an Infiltration
Test (if somehow maneuvering around
without notice). This is opposed by a
Perception Test from the character or
AI manning the sensor system.

WIRELESS SCANNING
Some high-security areas will in-
tentionally monitor for wireless
radio signals originating within
their area as a way of detect-
ing intruders by their com-
munications emissions. These
signals can even be used to
track the intruder's location via
triangulation and other means
(see Physical Tracking, p. 251).
To bypass wireless detection sys-
tems, covert operatives can use
line-of-sight laser links (p. 313)
for communication or touch-based
skinlinks (p. 309).

ACTIVE COUNTERMEASURES
When all else fails, active counter-
measures may be deployed against
intruders. While live transhu-
man guards are sometimes
used, robotic sentries are more
common, typically AI-driven
synthmorphs such as synths,
slitheroids, arachnoids, or
reapers, with guardian angels
(p. 346) providing air support.
Occasionally AI-operated gun
emplacements—armored tur-
rets that pop out of walls and
ceilings—are also applied. In
some circumstances, these shells
are teleoperated or even jammed
by transhuman security.
   dditional countermeasures brought
to bear will depend on the facility in
question. Some sites will engage in active
jamming, to deny the intruders any com-
munication. Others will deploy hostile nano-
swarms and even chemical weapons.
