■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■G




 The accelerated technological levels of Eclipse Phase
 enable a number of devices for personal enhancement,
 survival, and other uses.



 EQUIPMENT RULES
 The following rules apply to all technological items in
 Eclipse Phase.

 ACQUIRING GEAR
 During character creation, players purchase gear for
 their characters using the credits they have during
 the character creation process. Once play begins,
 however, characters must obtain any equipment they
 need the usual way: by buying, borrowing, making,
 or stealing it.
    In the inner system, hypercorp, and Jovian Republic
 settlements—and other places where capitalism still
 reigns—gear acquisition is simply a matter of finding
 a seller and buying it. Each item has a listed cost, from
 Trivial to Expensive, as noted on the Gear Costs table.
 Due to local availability of resources, supply and
 demand, and legalities, these listed costs are meant
 to be approximations. When no other factors apply,
 the listed Average Cost for that category can be used.
 Otherwise the gamemaster should modify the item's
 worth as they see fit, according to local economic fac-
 tors, while still keeping it within that cost category
 range. The Cost Modifiers table lists out some sug-
 gested changes to an item's cost, but these are simply
 recommendations, and can be ignored or followed as
 the gamemaster deems fit. The exact local conditions
 are largely up to the gamemaster to determine, as best
 fits their game.
    In some circumstances, characters may attempt to
 haggle over gear prices. This is best handled as ro-
 leplaying, but the gamemaster may also call for an
 Opposed Persuasion Test (or possibly an Intimidation
 Test). The character who wins may increase or reduce
 the price by 10% per 10 points of MoS.
    In the outer system, anarchist, Titanian, scum, and
 other habitats that use the reputation economy, charac-
 ters must rely on their rep scores to acquire the goods
 and services they need. The mechanics for this are cov-
 ered under Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285.
    Characters are of course free to get their hands
 on equipment by any other means they devise—con
 schemes, borrowing from friends, and outright
 theft, with all of the appropriate tests and conse-
 quences. In some cases, acquiring gear may be an
 adventure unto itself.

 FABRICATING GEAR
 Thanks to nanofabrication technology, characters may
 also create their own equipment using cornucopia
AR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■
                      ■GEAR■
                       GEAR■

                                                               11


  machines and similar nanofab devices (p. 327). The
  character must have the appropriate blueprints to do
  so, whether they come with the fabber, are bought
  legitimately or on the black market, acquired with rep,
  or found online. Characters may also code their own
  blueprint desires, using the Programming: Nanofab-
  rication skill.

   GEAR MODIFIERS
  In the technological future, gear is a necessity. In many
  cases, use of equipment provides no bonuses, it simply
  allows a character to perform a task they would oth-
  erwise be unable to do. For example, it is impossible
  to pick a mechanical lock without lockpick or some
  sort of tool.
     In other cases, however, gear provides a bonus to
  the task at hand. Climbing a wall may be possible
  without tools, but if you happen to have gecko gloves
  or other climbing gear, it's going to be a lot easier. The
  specific modifier applied is usually noted in the gear
  item's description, typically ranging from +10 to +30.

   GEAR QUALITY
  In both of the situations above, it is possible to have
  items that are of either exceptional or inferior quality,
  with corresponding positive or negative modifiers. The
  gear may be well-crafted, state-of-the-art, cutting-edge
  experimental, or simply top-of-the-line, applying an
  additional +10 to +30. Or it may be outdated, shoddy,
  or in disrepair, inflicting a –10 to –30 modifier (in
  some cases canceling out the basic gear bonus).



                       GEAR COSTS
 CATEGORY RANGE (IN CREDITS)          AVERAGE (IN CREDITS)
 Trivial        1–99                  50
 Low            100–499               250
 Moderate       500–1,499             1,000
 High           1,500–9,999           5,000
 Expensive      10,000+               20,000



                   COST MODIFIERS
 ECONOMIC FACTOR              SUGGESTED COST MODIFIER
 Item Stolen                  –50%
 Item Used                    –25%
 Item Restricted              +25%
 Item Illegal                 +50%
 Item Scarce                  +25%
 Item Extremely Rare          +50%
 Item Common                  –25%
