GEAR SIZES
On occasion, you'll need to know how small or large
a certain piece of equipment is. Though this is largely
something the gamemaster can wing on the fly using
common sense, we've listed sizes for many gear items
that are unusual or so futuristic that the average player
may not have a feel for what dimensions the tech
likely is. These size categories are listed on the Gear
Sizes table (p. 297). These sizes should be considered
approximations, as depending on the manufacturer
and process, some items may be smaller or larger than
similar items. It is also important to keep in mind that
as technology advances, the size and components of
various equipment items shrink, so when in doubt, go
with smaller.

MASS AND ENCUMBRANCE
A character who is carrying too much gear should
be slowed down, suffering negative modifiers both
to their movement rates and their skill tests. Rather
than micromanaging the weights of individual pieces
of equipment, however, this matter is largely left to
the gamemaster's discretion, using common sense. If a
character loads up beyond reason, apply modifiers as
seem appropriate. The gamemaster should, however,
keep in mind that many of the manufacturing mate-
rials used in Eclipse Phase allow for items that are
much lighter than current standards without any loss
of durability or function (see Future Materials, p. 298).
Likewise, characters in low or microgravity environ-
ments can carry much larger loads.

CONCEALING GEAR
Characters may attempt to conceal items on their
person, hoping at least to hide them from casual
notice if not an intensive search. To determine how



                 GEAR SIZES
SIZE CATEGORY GENERAL DIMENSIONS AND NOTES
                So small that the item cannot be seen without
                the aid of a microscope or nanoscopic vision
Nano
                (p. 311), and may not be manipulated without
                fractal digits (p. 311) or similar tools.
                Anything ranging from the size of a barely
Micro
                visible small dot to an average insect.
                Mini items may be concealed within some-
Mini
                one's palm or small pockets.
                Small items may be held in one hand and
Small
                concealed in normal pockets.
                Medium size items are cumbersome to hold
                with one hand, ranging from the size of a 2-li-
Medium          ter bottle to the size of a medium dog. They do
                not fit in pockets, but they may be concealed
                by larger coverings.
Large           Roughly human-sized.
Huge            Vehicles and other more massive objects.
effectively the character conceals the equipment, make
a Palming Test and note the MoS (the gamemaster
may wish to roll this secretly). Whenever another
character has a chance to notice the concealed item,
they must succeed in a Perception Test and achieve
a higher MoS than was scored on the Palming Test.
The gamemaster should apply modifiers to both tests
as appropriate. For example, concealing a large item
like a sword would be difficult (–30), whereas wearing
concealing clothing like a longcoat or multi-pocketed
jumpsuit would help (+20). Likewise, a character
who is not actively looking is less likely to notice the
hidden gear (–30), whereas someone who conducts a
physical search (+30) or who has enhanced vision to
pierce protective layers will fare better.

DESIGN AND FASHION
Many objects in Eclipse Phase closely resemble their
early 21st century equivalents—a bottle of soda is still
a transparent container holding a brightly colored
liquid, clothing is obviously something you wear, and
a knife still consists of a blade and a handle. The ma-
terials, processes, and mindsets that go into making
them, however, are quite different. To start, very few
items look have a uniform, mass-produced look, even
if they were. The procedures of minifacturing and
nanofabrication allow every individual item to be
manufactured with a unique (or at least different)
look. In areas with anarchist/reputation economies, in
fact, where personal possessions have very little intrin-
sic value, expression and creativity are favored and so
many items are artistically personalized (and actual
hand-crafted items are rare and prized). Likewise,
almost all equipment is designed with ergonomics
and ease-of-use prioritized, so gear with soft curves,
pleasing colors, and form-fitting shapes are common.
Many items of personal technology, such as flashlights
or small tools, are made in the form of ovoids that
fit comfortably in the user's hand or in similar forms
that can be easily worn or attached to clothing. To
someone from the 20th century, many common
devices look like oddly colored rocks or decorative
pieces of plastic or ceramic (in fact, many such items
are referred to as “blobjects” by older transhumans).
   The materials used to create everyday items are
also advanced, ranging from aerogel and graphene
to smart materials (p. 298) and exotic metamateri-
als with unusual physical properties. In practice, this
means that most items are light, durable (with both
tensile strength and/or flexibility, as needed), water-
proof, dirt-repellent, and self-cleaning. Most gear is
also designed with zero-G or microgravity function-
ality in mind, and can easily be clipped, tethered, or
stuck to a surface with grip pads.
   Almost all gear available in Eclipse Phase is also
available in forms that are wearable/usable by up-
lifted animals and non-humanoid morphs, such
as novacrabs, slitheroids, and so on. Even if such
customized gear is not immediately available, it is
