FUTURE MATERIALS
Many materials are available and commonly used in
Eclipse Phase that are rare, theorized, or unheard-
of today. The following entries note some of the
more interesting.

AEROGEL
Low-density, solid-state “Frozen smoke” is made by
carefully foaming various materials, typically glasses
or ceramics, to an ultra-low density state. Aerogel
is semi-transparent and light-weight, feels like sty-
rofoam, but acts as an incredible insulator against
heat and cold. It is commonly used in habitats.

DIAMOND
Artificial diamond is lightweight and super-strong,
has an extremely high melting point, and has near-
perfect thermal conductivity. This makes it an ideal
substance for hardening coated surfaces (armor)
and creating super-tough diamond machinery.

FULLERENES/FULLERITES
Fullerenes are molecular carbon structures (known
as buckyballs, carbon nanotubes, and graphene)
that are extremely strong (vastly stronger by weight
than steel), heat-resistant, and can be either insula-
tive or superconductive. This makes them useful in
equipment as diverse as armor, electronics, sensor
systems, or the cables of space elevators.

METALLIC FOAM
Metal foam is created by adding foaming agents
to liquid metals, resulting in extremely lightweight




usually not difficult to nanofabricate. Smart materials
(p. 298) also make interoperability between different
morphs easy.

 INTERFACE
It is not uncommon for everyday devices to have no
visible controls as they are designed to be operated via
radio broadcasts from the user's ecto or mesh inserts.
Any items crafted for use in emergency, combat, sur-
vival, or exploration situations, however, will feature
basic physical controls, just in case. Physical interfaces
are typically controlled by touch pads that are noth-
ing more than colored spots on the device's surface,
though some may also project a holographic interface
display. Most equipment of this sort can can also be
voice-activated and controlled.
   Almost all devices are loaded with a complete set
of help files and tutorials. Most electronics are also
mesh-capable and equipped with specialized AIs (see
Meshed Gear, next page).
 etallic structures—light enough to float on water.
 eal for habitat construction and floating cities.

METALLIC GLASS
 etallic glass are metals highly alloyed to possess a
 sordered (rather than crystalline) atomic structure
 ith unique combinations of stiffness and strength,
 aking it a good wear surface and alternative to
eramics in armor. It is also useful for its unusual
or a metal) electrical resistance properties.

METAMATERIALS
 etamaterials have unusual physical properties
 sually electromagnetic) due to their structure,
uch as having a negative refractive index. Metama-
 rials are used to create invisibility cloaks (p. 316),
uperlenses, phased array optics, and impressive
 D holograms.

 EFRACTORY METALS
hese metallic alloys have extremely high melt-
 g points, making them ideal for extremely hot
ngine systems, atmospheric entry vehicles, and
ypersonic craft.

RANSPARENT ALUMINA
 transparent form, this ceramic is often known as
 pphire. Transparent alumina is harder than steel
nd zero-g casting techniques allow for intriguing
ansparent construction designs, so long as its poor
 nsile strength is respected.                    ■




   SMART MATERIALS
   Many common items of technology are made from
   so-called smart materials. These devices contain—or
   sometimes consist entirely of—many small nanoma-
   chines that can both move and reshape themselves
   to alter the object's shape, color, and texture. For
   example, smart clothing can transform from a suit of
   specialized cold weather clothing suitable for the Mar-
   tian poles in winter to a fashionable suit in the latest
   style due to hundreds of thousands of tiny nanoma-
   chines in the clothing that shift and move to reshape
   the garment. Similarly, a tool made of smart materials
   can switch from a powered screwdriver to a wrench
   or a hammer, as the nanomachines move around and
   completely reshape the tool. Smart materials all con-
   tain specialized advanced nanomachine generators (p.
   328) that keep them in perfect repair as long as they
   are regularly recharged.
