 MESHED GEAR
Almost all technology in Eclipse Phase is designed
to be operated via radio signals from the user's basic
implant, although models usable by characters with-
out basic implants are also available. In addition all
devices contain a nearly microscopic computer and
radio link (known as a “voice”) that allows the user to
easily locate the object and that reports on the condi-
tion of the object or device, how to properly use and
care for it, as well as telling the user when it needs
to be repaired and how. Most are discrete and highly
useful, but cheaply made goods sometimes have overly
annoying voices.
   This means that almost all devices can be accessed
via the mesh or directly if within radio range. This
makes them vulnerable to hacking and intrusion at-
tempts (p. 254) as well as radio jamming (p. 262).
Many devices are, however, publicly accessible (see
Spimes, p. 238). Meshed gear may also be tracked
through the mesh (p. 251). For privacy and security,
these devices are often slaved to other systems (see
Slaving Devices, p. 248); devices worn/carried by


                                 RADIO AND SE
SIZE CATEGORY           URBAN RANGE                   OP
Nano                       20 meters                      1
Micro                      50 meters                      5
Mini                      1 kilometer                     20
Small                     5 kilometers                    50
Medium                   25 kilometers                25
Large                    500 kilometers              5,00
   characters are usually made part of the personal area
   network and slaved to the character's mesh inserts/
   ecto. For more info on meshed devices, see the Mesh
   chapter, p. 234.
     Many devices come equipped with AIs, who are
   equipped with skillsofts that enable them to oper-
   ate the device on their own, as according to voiced
   instructions or commands issued through the net. AIs
   are described on p. 264 and p. 331.

   RADIO AND SENSOR RANGES
   In Eclipse Phase, almost all devices are equipped with
   small radios so that they may be meshed. Likewise,
   many pieces of gear are equipped with sensors such as
   cameras, microphones, or other detectors. The Radio
   and Sensor Ranges table notes what range these de-
   vices operate at.

   POWER
   All of the powered devices in Eclipse Phase require
   electricity to function. With rare exceptions, most of
   them rely on either solar cells or powerful batteries.
   These batteries are high-density, room-temperature


NSOR RANGES
RANGE        EXAMPLES
meters       Smart Dust, Nanobot/Microbot Swarms
meters       Microbugs
 meters      Mesh Inserts
 meters      Ectos, Miniature Radio Farcasters, Portable Sensors
ometers      Radio Boosters, Vehicle Sensors
lometers
