superconductors with 25 times the capacity of the
best batteries in common use in the early 21st century.
Such batteries may also be constructed so that they
are flexible, printed on devices, or woven into fabric.
They are good for 100–500 hours of use, and will alert
the user when they start running low. More power-
ful radio-isotope nuclear batteries are also available,
heavily shielded so they do not emit radiation and
good for 3 years or more of use.
   In short, power should rarely be an issue in Eclipse
Phase games, unless it happens to fit the plot. Power
failure could also result from a critical failure roll.



PERSONAL AUGMENTATION
Almost all citizens of the solar system, whether human,
AI, or uplifted animal, use various forms of biological,
cybernetic, or nanotechnological augmentation. The
following is a list of the most common types.
  Unless otherwise noted, any bonuses from personal
augmentations are both compatible and cumulative
with bonuses from other enhancements.

STANDARD AUGMENTATIONS
Most morphs produced in the solar system include the
following augmentations.

BASIC BIOMODS
Almost universal in biomorphs, many habitats will not
allow individuals to visit/immigrate if their biomorph
does not possess these biomods in order to preserve
public health. Basic biomods consists of a series of
genetic tweaks, tailored virii, and bacteria that speed
healing, greatly increase disease resistance, and impede
aging. A morph with basic biomods heals twice as fast
as an early 21st century human, gradually regrows lost
body parts, is immune to all normal diseases (from
cancer to the flu), and is largely immune to aging. In
addition, the morph requires no more than 3-4 hours
of sleep per night, is immune to ill-effects from long-
term exposure to low or zero gravity, and does not
naturally suffer from biological problems like depres-
sion, shock reactions after being injured, or allergies.
[Moderate, but included for free in most biomorphs]

BASIC MESH INSERTS
Mesh inserts are ubiquitous among modern morphs.
This network of cybernetic brain implants is essential
equipment for anyone who wants to stay connected
and make full use of the wireless mesh. The intercon-
nected components of this system include:

 - Cranial Computer: This computer serves as the
   hub for the character's personal area network
   and is home to their muse (p. 264). It has all of
   the functions of a smartphone and PDA, acting
   as a media player, meshbrowser, alarm clock/
   calendar, positioning and map system, address
   book, advanced calculator, file storage system,
   search engine, social networking client, messaging
   program, and note pad. It manages the user's aug-
   mented reality input and can run any software the
   character desires (see Software, p. 331). It also
   processes XP data, allowing the user to experi-
   ence other people's recorded memories, and also
   allowing the user to share their own XP sensory
   input with others in real-time. Facial/image rec-
   ognition and encryption software (p. 331) are
   included by default.
 - Radio Transceiver: This transceiver connects the
   user to the mesh and other characters/devices
   within range. It has an effective range of 20 kilo-
   meters in deep space or other locations far from
   radio interference and 1 kilometer in crowded
   habitats.
 - Medical Sensors: This array of implants monitors
   the user's medical status, including heart rate,
   respiration, blood pressure, temperature, neural
   activity, and much more. A sophisticated medical
   diagnostic system interprets the data and warns
   the user of any concerns or dangers.

  Using any of these functions is as easy as thinking.
[Moderate, but included for free in most morphs]

CORTICAL STACK
A cortical stack is a tiny cyberware data storage unit
protected within a synthdiamond case the size of a
grape, implanted at the base of the skull where the
brain stem and spinal cord connect. It contains a
digital backup of that character's ego. Part nanoware,
the implant maintains a network of nanobots that
monitor synaptic connections and brain architecture,
noting any changes and updating the ego backup in
real time, right up to the moment of death. If the char-
acter dies, the cortical stack can be recovered and they
may be restored from the backup (see Resleeving, p.
271). Cortical stacks do not have external or wireless
access (for security), they must be surgically removed
(see Retrieving a Cortical Stack, p. 268). Cortical
stacks are extremely durable, requiring special effort
to damage or destroy. They are commonly recovered
from bodies that have otherwise been pulped or man-
gled. Cortical stacks are intentionally isolated from
mesh inserts and other implants, as a security measure
to prevent hacking or external tampering. [Moderate,
but included for free with most morphs]

CYBERBRAIN
Cybernetic brains are where the ego (or controlling
AI) resides in synthmorphs and pods. Modeled on
biological brains, cyberbrains have a holistic architec-
ture and serve as the command node and central pro-
cessing point for sensory input and decision-making.
Only one ego or AI may “inhabit” a cyberbrain at a
time; to accommodate extras, mesh inserts (p. 300)
or a ghost-rider module (p. 307) must be used. Since
cyberbrains store memories digitally, they have the
equivalent of mnemonic augmentation (p. 307). They
also have a built-in puppet sock (p. 307) so that they
