may be remote-controlled. Cyberbrains are vulnerable
to brainhacking (p. 261) and other forms of electronic
infiltration/attack. Cyberbrains come equipped with
two or more pairs of external access jacks (p. 306),
usually located at the base of the skull, which allow
for direct wired connections. [Moderate, but included
for free in all synthetic morphs and pods]

BIOWARE
Bioware augmentations can be acquired either as a
genemod when the morph is designed and grown or
as a later modification to an existing morph, either
by using nanomachines to modify the morph's tissue
or by externally growing the organ and implanting it.
Bioware may be used to enhance biomorphs (includ-
ing pods and uplifts), but not synthmorphs.

ENHANCED SENSES
The following are a list of the most common enhanced
senses. Each is also available as a cybernetic implant,
but bioware is much more common.
   Direction Sense: The character has an innate sense
of direction and distance using advanced inertial
navigation. The character can arbitrarily define any
point as “north” and keep track of which direction
that is, as well as knowing approximately how far
they have come. Characters with this augmentation
can always retrace any route they have taken, only
experiencing difficulty with three-dimensional routes
lacking navigational markers (such as deep space or
undersea; apply a –30 modifier). Since positioning
inside habitats by anyone with basic mesh inserts is an
automatic affair, only characters venturing to remote
locations require this augmentation. [Low]
   Echolocation: The character possesses sonar similar
to that of a bat or dolphin. The character bounces
brief ultrasonic pulses off their surroundings and uses
them to form an image of these surroundings through
the pattern of reflections of these pulses received by
the character's ears. For more details, see Using En-
hanced Senses, p. 302. This augmentation works in
both air and water and has a range of 20 meters in air
and 100 meters in water. [Low]
   Enhanced Hearing: The morph's ears are enhanced
to hear both higher and lower frequency sounds—the
range of sounds they can hear is twice that of normal
human ears (see Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302). In
addition, their hearing is considerably more sensitive,
allowing them to hear sounds as if they were five
times closer than they are. A character with this aug-
mentation can easily overhear even a softly spoken
conversation at another table in a small restaurant.
This augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all
Perception Tests involving hearing. [Low]
   Enhanced Smell: The morph's sense of smell is
equal to that of a bloodhound. The user can iden-
tify both chemicals and individuals by smell, and can
track people and chemically reactive objects by smell
as long as the trail was made within the last several
hours and has not been obscured. The character can
also gain a general sense of the emotions and health
of any character within 5 meters (+20 to Perception or
Kinesics Tests to do so). [Low]
   Enhanced Vision: The morph's eyes have tetrachro-
matic vision capable of exceptional color differen-
tiation. These eyes can also see the electromagnetic
spectrum from terahertz wave frequencies to gamma
rays, enabling them to see a total of several dozen
colors, instead of the seven ordinary human eyes can
perceive. In addition, these eyes have a variable focus
equivalent to 5 power magnifiers or binoculars. This
augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all Percep-
tion Tests involving vision. For further applications,
see Using Enhances Senses, p. 302. [Low]

MENTAL AUGMENTATIONS
Mental augmentations are extremely common.
   Eidetic Memory: The character can remember ev-
erything that ever happened to them, in detail, with
no long term memory loss. For example, they can
recite a page they read in a book a month ago, recall
a string of 200 random characters they viewed a year
ago, or even tell you what they had for breakfast on
a particular date a decade ago. However, they can
only remember things they paid attention to. The
character will not remember the contents of a note
on someone's desk if they merely glanced at it; they
must specifically have read it. No effort is required to
use this augmentation, the character merely needs to
attempt to remember a specific fact. [Low]
   Hyper Linguist: The morph's brain maintains the
linguistic flexibility of a small child, allowing the
character to learn languages with great ease. This
functions as the Hyper Linguist trait, p. 146. [Low]
   Math Boost: This implants functions as the Math
Wiz trait, p. 146. [Low]
   Multiple Personalities: The character's brain is in-
tentionally partitioned to accommodate an extra per-
sonality. This multiplicity is not viewed as a disorder,
but as a cognitive tool to help people deal with their
hypercomplex environments. This extra personality
can be an NPC run by the gamemaster, a separate
character (in ego form only) made by the player, or
the downloaded fork of another character. For all in-
tents and purposes, the extra personality is treated as
a separate ego (i.e., it may fork separately), except that
both personalities are backed up in the same cortical
stack and if downloaded they must be placed in sepa-
rate morphs or in another morph with this implant.
   Only one ego may be in control of the morph at a
time. The other resides in the background, still active,
but not on a surface level. Each ego is completely
aware of what the other is doing, thinking, etc. If for
some reason the subsumed personality wants to come
to the fore, but the other personality won't relinquish
control, make an Opposed WIL x 3 Test. Each ego
has its own Lucidity and Trauma Threshold, and they
track stress and trauma separately. Any psi attacks or
social/mental influences only affect the personality at
the fore.
