USING ENHANCED SENSE
Personal augmentations and technological aids
have drastically increased the sensory capabilities
of most transhumans. The following notes provide
some details on what capabilities these sensory func-
tions provide. The capabilities are typically the same
whether it's a biological sense or a technological
sensor, though tech sensors can “turn off” certain
wavelengths and sense only specific frequencies,
whereas biological senses perceive the full spectrum
with no ability to filter parts out.

SENSORY DATABASES
 Both technological sensors and enhanced biological
 senses come equipped with databases of scanned
“signatures” that make it easier to identify whatever
 the user is sensing (in the case of bioware, these da-
 tabases are stored and accessed via the character's
 mesh inserts). For example, infrared sensors feature
 databases listing the heat signatures of different
 animals and items, making it easier to identify such
 things. In relevant situations, apply a +20 modifier
 for identifying targets sensed this way.

ACTIVE VS. PASSIVE
An active scanner must actually emit its particular
frequency and then measure the reflections; this
means a similar sensor can detect it and home in on
the emitting source. For example, a character with
enhanced vision can literally see the terahertz radia-
tion emitted by someone using an active terahertz
sensor, much like someone with normal vision can
see the light emitted by a flashlight.
  A passive scanner simply scans frequencies that occur
naturally—there is nothing to give the sensor away.

ELECTROMAGNETIC
SPECTRUM
   For Eclipse Phase rules purposes, the EM spectrum
is broken down by wavelength and frequency into
these categories: radio, microwave, terahertz, infrared,




    Having an extra ego in your head, working in the
  background, is helpful for multitasking. The character
  receives an extra Complex Action each turn that may
  only be used for mental or mesh actions. [High]

  PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS
  Most physical bioware augmentations are derived
  from the capabilities of animals.
     Adrenal Boost: This adrenal gland enhancement
  supercharges the character's adrenal response to
  situations that invoke stress, pain, or strong emotions
  (fear, anger, lust, hate). When activated, the concen-
  trated burst of norepinephrine accelerates heart rate
  and blood flow and burns carbohydrates. In game
  ible light, ultraviolet, X-rays, and gamma rays.
 Radar (Radio/Microwave): Radar sensors work by
 tively emitting radio waves and microwaves and
 easuring them as they bounce off the target. Radar
 orks best when detecting metallic objects, and is
 ss effective (–20 modifier) against biomorphs and
mall items. Resolution is not high, however, so it can
 e shapes but not colors or fine details. It can be
 ed to detect both speed and movement, can “see”
 rough walls (up to a cumulative Armor + Durabil-
    of 100), and can detect cybernetic implants or
  ncealed items. At close ranges (1-2 meters), it can
  tect pulse rate and respiration by measuring the
 otion of the chest cavity.
 Terahertz: Terahertz sensors emit t-rays, measure
 e reflections, and compare them to a database
   terahertz signatures that different items/materi-
 s have. The resolution is higher than radar, but
  th slightly less detail than normal vision. Similar
   radar, terahertz sensors can see through walls
  d other materials, but to a lesser extent (up to a
  mulative Armor + Durability of 50). T-rays occur
  turally, but terahertz sensors normally require an
mitter as they are absorbed by atmosphere (as well
   water and metal). In space, however, an emitter
 ould not be required. Likewise, passive terahertz
 ans within atmosphere have an effective range of
   meters. T-rays do not penetrate skin, so are inef-
 ctive for locating implants.
 Infrared: Near-infrared wavelengths are used
 r night vision, providing resolution and detail
  uivalent to regular vision under low-light condi-
ons. Mid-long infrared is excellent for detecting
  at sources (unobstructed by fog or smoke) and
 mperature differences (as small as 0.1 degree C),
  d such thermal imaging will sense the dissipat-
 g heat traces left by warm sources on colder ones,
  owing the user to see where someone was sitting,
ace fading heat footprints, or see what buttons
 ere pressed if they are quick enough. Infrared




   terms, this allows the character to ignore the –10
   modifier from 1 wound and temporarily increases
   REF by +10 (also boosting REF-linked skills and
   Initiative). These modifiers apply until the character
   has calmed down (if the character also has endocrine
   control, p. 304, then adrenal boosts can be activated
   and deactivated at will, and the negated wounds are
   cumulative). [High]
      Bioweave Armor (Light): Bioweave armor involves
   lacing the morph's skin with artificial spider silk bio-
   logical fibers. This provides an Armor rating of 2/3
   without changing the appearance, texture, or sensitiv-
   ity of the morph's skin. This armor is cumulative with
   worn armor. [Low]
