  USING ENHANCED SEN
  also detects the blood flow in a biomorph's face
  which can be useful in judging emotional states
  (+20 modifier to Kinesics Tests), and can spot sub
  surface implants. Some normally white surfaces
  are reflective (mirrored) in infrared, potentially
  allowing an infrared viewer to see around corners
  or behind themselves. On the other hand, some
  glass is opaque to infrared light. Infrared is also
  useful for determining chemical composition
  (enabling Chemistry Tests by sight alone). Infrared
  sensory input is passive.
     Lidar (Visible Light): Similar to radar, but with
  much higher resolution, lidar actively bounces light
  from the infrared through ultraviolet spectrum off
  a target and measures the backscatter, fluorescence
  and other properties. Lidar is very useful for detect-
  ing atmospheric chemical properties and weather.
  Like radar, it can be used to measure a target's
  range and speed, or develop a three-dimensional
  image. One clever use of lidar is to precisely “map”
  the position of everything in a room (taking several
  turns of scanning) and then check that positioning
  later to see if anything has been moved.
     Ultraviolet: Some objects are fluorescent in ultra
  violet light, including some animals, flowers, insects
  urine, and minerals (which show up much better
  in ultraviolet than regular light). Some plants and
  animals have patterns that can only be seen in ultra-
  violet. Likewise, chemical dyes that only show up
  under ultraviolet, or that make certain substances
  (like blood) fluoresce under ultraviolet light, have
  various security purposes. Some glass is opaque at
  ultraviolet wavelengths.
     X-Ray/Gamma-Ray: Backscatter imaging systems
  using X- and gamma-ray frequencies produce
  high-resolution three-dimensional images and
  are very useful for detecting concealed weapons
  and implants. Such imagers are very good at
  penetrating walls and metal (up to a cumulative
  Armor + Durability of 200, at least at levels safe




  Bioweave Armor (Heavy): Heavy bioweave armor
involves lacing the morph's skin with a denser and
thicker network of the same fi bers. The morph's
skin becomes thicker and somewhat less fl exible
except at the joints. The morph's skin also has an
unusually smooth look, and a distinctively smooth
and tough-feeling texture. This provides an Armor
rating of 3/4 without decreasing the morph's mo-
bility. The character's sense of touch, however, is
significantly reduced (–20 modifier) except on their
hands, feet, and face. This armor is cumulative with
worn armor. [Moderate]
  Carapace Armor: Carapace armor combines
bioweave armor with hard but flexible plates of
ES (CONT.)
 o transhumans). These sensors can, of course, also
detect the presence of harmful radiation.

SOUNDWAVES
 he transmission of vibrations through a medium,
 ound is broken down into infrasound (frequen-
  ies below standard human hearing), normal
  coustic range, and ultrasound (frequencies above
 tandard human hearing). Soundwaves do not
propagate in vacuum.
   Ultrasound: Ultrasound sonar operates much
 ike radar, bouncing sound waves off a target
  nd measuring the returning echoes. Ultrasound
 maging is similarly low-resolution, showing
 hapes and movement but no colors and few
details unless measured closely (1-2 meters).
Ultrasound is good for identifying how dense a
material is, however, can detect denser materials
hidden beneath less dense ones. Many medical
devices utilize ultrasound, and ultrasound sensors
  an also detect gas leaks, frictional motor noises,
  nd similar mechanical emissions. Ultrasound sen-
 ors are typically unaffected by noise clutter from
 tandard acoustic frequencies.
   Infrasound: Infrasound travels much further
 han regular sound frequencies (hundreds of
kilometers). Mechanical machinery, seismic distur-
bances, tornados, explosions, waterfalls, and cer-
 ain weather phenomena create infrasound waves.
  arge animals such as elephants and whales use
 nfrasound to communicate via the ground over
arge distances, though infrasound data transfer is
 oo slow for complex communications.

COMBINED SENSOR YSTEMS
When used in combination, these sensor tech-
nologies can be potent. For example, the use lidar,
 hermal imaging, and radar can provide a three-
dimensional map of a building and everyone and
 verything inside.                              ■




   a chitin-ceramic hybrid material modeled on the
   microscopic structure and texture of arthropod exo-
   skeletons. This armor is obvious and has a somewhat
   crocodilian or insectoid appearance (character's
   choice). The morph is completely hairless as well. This
   provides an Armor rating of 11/11. This armor is not
   cumulative with worn armor. [Moderate]
      Chameleon Skin: The morph's skin is augmented
   with complex chromatophores so that it changes color
   like the skin of a chameleon or an octopus. The morph
   can match the appearance of almost any color and
   most patterns. This provides a +20 modifier to Infiltra-
   tion Tests to avoid being seen or noticed, as long as
   the character is stationary or not moving faster than a
