slow walk. The character must also be nude or wearing
smart clothing (p. 325) or a chameleon cloak (p. 315)
of the same color and pattern. In addition to blending
in, the character can also consciously change the color
and pattern of their skin to deliberately stand out (+20
on Perception Tests to notice) or simply to produce at-
tractive or interesting colors or patterns. [Low]
   Circadian Regulation: The morph only requires
2 hours of sleep to maintain health and function at
peak mental capacity. The character dreams con-
stantly while asleep and can both fall asleep and
wake up almost instantly. In addition, the character
can easily and with no ill-effects shift to a 2-day
cycle, where they are awake for 44 hours and sleep
for 4. [Moderate]
   Claws: The morph has retractable claws like those
of a cat. These claws do not interfere with the char-
acter's manual dexterity and are razor sharp. How-
ever, they are relatively small and only do 1d10 + 1
+ (SOM ÷ 10) damage, with an AP of –1. As a result,
they are legal in almost all habitats and are considered
tools as much as weapons. [Low]
   Clean Metabolism: The morph's symbiotic bacteria,
gut flora, and glands have been genetically engineered
to keep the morph “clean.” The morph also produces
smart antibiotics that prevent the growth of any
bacteria or yeasts in it or on its skin. As a result, the
morph is completely immune to infections, dental cav-
ities, and bad breath, its sweat has no scent, and the
morph's efficient digestion produces somewhat less
solid waste and less odorous chemicals. [Moderate]
   Drug Glands: The morph has specially-tailored
glands designed to produce specific hormones or
chemicals and release them in the body. The charac-
ter has control over these glands and can release the
chemicals at will. Each type of drug gland is consid-
ered a separate enhancement. For potential drugs and
chemicals, see p. 317. [Low]
   Eelware: Derived from electric eel genetics, a char-
acter can have eelware implanted so that it connects
to a network of bioconductors in the hands and feet
(or other limbs), allowing the character to generate
stunning shocks with a touch. Eelware inflicts shock
damage (p. 204) exactly like a pair of shock gloves.
Eelware can also be used to power implants and spe-
cially designed handheld devices by touch. [Low]
   Emotional Dampers: This low-cost alternative to
endocrine control (p. 304) allows the user to vol-
untarily damp their morph's emotional responses
and various non-verbal cues like pupil dilation, eye
movement, or vocal tone. Using this augmentation
allows the user to lie and conceal their emotions in
such as way as oo fool the keenest observer; apply a
+30 modifier to Deception and Impersonation Tests.
This modification does not affect methods of detecting
lies and emotions that involve reading the character's
neural state, including psi-gamma sleights. However,
this augmentation damps out all emotional responses
and so causes the character to be less persuasive in re-
al-time personal interactions, imposing a –10 modifier
to other Social skill tests like Persuasion. Characters
can turn this augmentation on or off at will. [Low]
   Endocrine Control: This augmentation modifies the
morph's endocrine system, giving the character fine
control over their hormone output. This allows the
character to completely control their appetite and
emotions and to regulate pain. They receive a +30
modifier against the effects of hunger, fear, and any
forms of emotional manipulation, such as the Drive
Emotion sleight. This augmentation also allows char-
acter to lie with perfect conviction and to completely
fool all methods of lie detection that do not rely
on the target's neural output; apply a +20 modifier
to Deception Tests. It also allows the character to
remain awake for 48 hours without penalty, but after
this time the character begins experiencing normal
