fatigue. Finally, the ability to regulate pain reception
allows the character to ignore the –10 modifier from
1 wound. [High]
   Enhanced Pheromones: The morph's biochemistry
has been altered so that it produces enhanced phero-
monal signals that subconsciously affect the behavior
of other humans in the vicinity. These pheromones
make the character more attractive and trustworthy to
the target; apply a +10 modifier to appropriate Social
skill tests, such as Persuasion. This augmentation only
affects characters who can smell the pheromones, and
it does not affect uplifts or xenomorphs. [Low]
   Enhanced Respiration: By boosting both lung ef-
ficiency and the blood's oxygen-carrying capacity, the
character can live comfortably in both high and low
pressure environments, from 0.2 atmospheres to 5
atmospheres, with no dizziness or need for gradual
decompression. In addition, the character can hold
their breath for up to 30 minutes when performing
minimal activity or for up to 10 minutes while per-
forming highly strenuous activity. [Low]
   Gills: The morph's lung tissue has been adapted to
function as gills, allowing the morph to breathe both
air and water, as long as the water is not toxic or too
stagnant. Characters with this augmentation breathe
in water and then expel the water through slits just
underneath their lowest pair of ribs that seal when the
character is not underwater. [Low]
   Grip Pads: The morph possesses specialized pads
on its palms, lower arms, shins, and the bottoms of
its feet. Designed to emulate the pads on gecko feet,
characters can support themselves on a wall or ceiling
by placing any two of these pads against any surface
not made from a material specially designed to resist
this augmentation. Characters can climb any surface
and move easily across ceilings that can support their
weight. Apply a +30 modifier to Climbing Tests. The
pads must be free to touch the surface the character is
climbing (no gloves). The nature of these pads is obvi-
ous to anyone looking at them, but they do not impair
the character's sense of touch or manual dexterity. If
combined with the vacuum sealing augmentation, the
character can even stick to surfaces in the vacuum of
space. [Low]
   Hibernation: The character can voluntarily reduce
the morph's metabolism to the point that the morph
requires only 5% of the normal amount of food,
water, and air. The character appears to sink into a
deep sleep, but can maintain a dim awareness of both
touch and sound and so can be easily awakened. En-
tering or leaving this state requires 3 minutes where
the character is relatively helpless. With sufficient
air, characters can safely hibernate for up to 40 days
without food or water. [Low]
   Muscle Augmentation: The morph's muscle mass
has been enhanced and toned and myofibers strength-
ened. Apply a +5 modifier to SOM. [High]
   Neurachem: This bioware modification enhances
the character's chemical synapses and juices their
neurotransmitters, drastically speeding up neural
connections. Neurachem can be mentally activated or
triggered by charged emotions. Level 1 neurachem in-
creases the character's Speed stat by +1, with no side
effect. Level 2 raises the Speed stat by +2, but each
time it is used the character suffers a nervous system
fatigue hangover for 1 hour after the boost wears off
(apply a –20 modifier to all actions). [High (Level 1),
Expensive (Level 2)]
   Poison Gland: Similar to the drug gland, this
morph has special glands that produce poisons,
like the venom glands of a snake. The morph has
poison glands in its fingers and mouth, so that it can
deliver either poison by scratching someone with a
fingernail, biting them hard enough to draw blood,
or even by sharing a beverage with someone or spit-
ting into their drink. The morph is immune to the
poisons it produces. These glands may not produce
nanotoxins. [Low]
   Prehensile Feet: The morph's feet and leg joints are
altered so that its toes are longer and more dexter-
ous and the big toe is transformed into an opposable
thumb. Physically, the morph's feet resemble a longer
narrower hand or a human foot with finger (and
thumb)-like toes. The character can walk normally
but must wear specially designed shoes. However, this
morph runs somewhat slower than a morph with un-
modified feet (–1 meter per Action Turn). In addition,
the morph's hips are slightly modified to allow greater
mobility. In a properly constructed chair, or when
floating in zero-G, the character can use both their
hands and their feet to manipulate the same object.
Most morphs used by characters who live in zero-G
possess this augmentation. [Low]
   Prehensile Tail: A long (1.5 meters) prehensile tail
is added to the morph's backside, extending out from
the tailbone. This tail is prehensile and may be used to
grab, hold, and even manipulate objects. The character
can control the tail's movements with concentration,
but it otherwise tends to move on its own. The tail
also improves the character's balance; apply a +10 to
any Physical skill tests where balance is a factor. [Low]
   Sex Switch: A complex suite of alterations allows
the character to switch their physical sex to male,
female, hermaphrodite, or neuter. This change is
mentally triggered but takes approximately 1 week to
complete. [Moderate]
   Skin Pocket: The morph has a pocket within its skin
layer, capable of holding and providing concealment
(+30) for small items. [Trivial]
   Temperature Tolerance: The morph's temperature
regulation and circulation are both substantially en-
hanced allowing the character to survive in tempera-
tures as low as –30 degrees Celsius and as high as 60
degrees Celsius without discomfort or ill effects. [Low]
   Toxin Filters: The morph gains an improved liver
and kidneys and biological filters in its lungs. Charac-
ters with this augmentation are immune to all chemi-
cal and biological toxins, including everything from
recreational chemicals to nerve agents to spoiled food.
In addition, the character can safely and comfortably
