SYNTHMORPHS AND
BIOWARE
Though bioware is preferred and more common,
many types of bioware can be mimicked with cy-
bernetics. This is especially useful for synthmorphs/
robots, which cannot be enhanced with bioware.
The following bioware items may be replicated as
cybernetics for synthmorphs and robots:
  - Chameleon Skin
  - Drug Glands
  - Eelware
  - Emotional Dampers
  - Enhanced Senses (All)
  - Grip Pads
  - Mental Augmentations (All)
  - Muscle Augmentation
  - Neurachem
  - Poison Glands
  - Prehensile Feet
  - Prehensile Tail                                ■



 breathe smoke and drink salt water. Unlike medich-
 ines, toxin immunity prevents the character from ex-
 periencing even brief harm or discomfort from a toxin
 (medichines merely rapidly repair damage caused by
 the toxin and then remove it from the morph). This
 augmentation provides no resistance to concentrated
 acid, nanotechnological attacks, or similar destruc-
 tive agents. Some characters with this augmentation
 learn to enjoy the taste of various chemical toxins like
 cyanide or arsenic. [Moderate]
    Vacuum Sealing: To possess this augmentation, the
 character must also possess some form of bioware
 armor or carapace armor. The morph has been spe-
 cially designed to survive the effects of vacuum. The
 character's skin resists vacuum as well as protecting
 the wearer from temperatures from –75 to 100 C.
 In addition, the character's mouth, nose, and other
 orifices can seal sufficiently well to resist vacuum,
 and the morph possesses a special membrane that
 extends over their eyes, allowing the character to
 see in vacuum without risking any eye damage. This
 augmentation is usually combined with either the en-
 hanced respiration or oxygen storage augmentation,
 or both together. [High]



 CYBERWARE
Very little cyberware is physically implanted. Instead,
the morph is placed in a healing vat (p. 326) and the
vat's nanobots construct the cyberware inside the bio-
morph's body. Cyberware is rarely used for anything
that can be accomplished using bioware.
  Synthmorphs and bots may also also use cyberware.
ENHANCED SENSES
   In addition to being able to duplicate the affects of
all bioware enhanced senses, there are a few enhanced
senses that can only be produced using cyberware.
   Anti-Glare: This visual mod eliminates penalties for
glare. [Low]
   Electrical Sense: The character can sense electric
fields. Within 5 meters, the character can instantly
tell if an electrical device is on or off and can see the
precise location of electrical wiring behind a wall or
inside a device. This sense gives the character a +10
modifier on any test involving analyzing, repairing, or
modifying electrical equipment. [Low]
   Radiation sense: The character can sense the pres-
ence and approximate source of all forms of danger-
ous radiation, including neutrons, charged particles,
and cosmic rays. [Low]
   T-Ray Emitter: Mounted under the skin of the
user's forehead, this implant generates low-powered
beams of terahertz radiation (T-rays) that allow the
character to see using reflected T-rays. As discussed in
Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302, this implant combined
with the enhanced vision enhancement (or a terahertz
sensor) allows the user to effectively see through cloth,
plastic, wood, masonry, composites, and ceramics as
well as being able to determine the composition of
various materials. This implant allows the user to see
using reflected T-rays for 20 meters in a normal atmo-
sphere and for 100 meters in vacuum. [Low]

MENTAL AUGMENTATION
These cybernetic augmentations enhance the brain
and mental functions.
  Access Jacks: Usually located in the base of the skull
or neck, this implant is an external socket with a direct
neural interface. It allows the character to establish a
direct wired connection using a fiberoptic cable to
external devices or other characters, which can be
useful in places where wireless links are unreliable or
complete privacy is required. Two characters linked
via access jack can “speak” mind-to-mind and transfer
information between their mesh inserts and other im-
plants. All synthmorphs have these by default. [Low]
   Dead Switch: This cortical stack (p. 300) accessory is
designed to keep the stack from falling into the wrong
hands. If the morph is killed, the dead switch wipes
and melts the cortical stack completely, so that the ego
cannot be recovered. This option is generally only used
by covert operatives with recent backups. [Low]
   Emergency Farcaster: Only characters with corti-
cal stacks can possess this augmentation. The morph
has an implanted quantum farcaster (p. 314) linked
to a highly secure storage facility. The high cost of
this implant also covers the cost of this storage. Using
standard radio and quantum encryption, the farcaster
broadcasts full backups of the character's ego (pulled
from the cortical stack) once every 48 hours. At the
gamemaster's discretion, the backup interval may be
scheduled more or less frequently, keeping in mind
that ego broadcasts are generally limited for security
