purposes and because they hog bandwidth. These
broadcasts only work when the character is in radio
contact with the storage facility and is typically only
used inside a habitat to broadcast backups back to a
nearby space ship. If the radio broadcasts are blocked
or jammed, this device cannot make backups.
   In the event of a farcaster failure, this augmentation
also includes a single-use emergency neutrino broad-
caster (p. 314) as well. This broadcaster contains ap-
proximately 10 nanograms of antimatter stored in an
orange-sized triply-redundant magnetic containment
vessel. If the character is dying or urgently wishes to
depart the morph, this tiny amount of antimatter is
brought into contact with a similarly tiny amount of
matter in a controlled fashion that generates a single
brief and carefully coded neutrino pulse of the ego's
most recent backup. However, the heat generated by
this process literally cooks the entire morph, killing it
and destroying all implants and electronics in or on it.
  This entire process takes less than 0.1 second and
the broadcast can be received as long as the neu-
trino receiver is within 100 astronomical units of
the character. Within the solar system, this implant
effectively guarantees the character's backup. It is less
useful on exoplanets where the character is out of
neutrino range of their backup facility. The amount
of antimatter carried by this implant is sufficiently
small enough that it does not produce an explosion
and will not damage any surrounding objects. Most
habitats carefully scan all visitors to determine if they
have this implant and if the amounts of antimatter
involved are sufficiently low as not to pose a danger
to the habitat and its inhabitants, and some ban this
implant entirely. [Expensive]
   Ghostrider Module: This implant allows the
character to carry another infomorph inside their
head. This infomorph could be another muse, an AI,
a backed-up ego, or a fork. The module is linked to
the character's mesh inserts, so the ghost-rider can
access the mesh. The character may limit the ghost-
rider's access, or may allow them direct access to their
sensory information, thoughts, communications, and
other implants. [Low]
   Mnemonic Augmentation: A character with this
augmentation and a cortical stack can access digital
recordings of all of the sensory data they have ex-
perienced in XP format (and they may share these
recordings with others). Mnemonic augmentation
differs from the eidetic memory bioware because it
allows characters to digitally share all of their sensory
data with others. It also allows them to closely ex-
amine sensory data they did not initially look at. For
example, If the character glanced at a note but did not
read it, they can later use image enhancement soft-
ware to enhance this image and in most cases actually
read what the note said. Mnemonic augmentation
allows the character to clearly hear all background
noises, like a conversation at a nearby table that the
character only initially heard a few words of. Using
mnemonic augmentation to retrieve a specific piece of
information is quite easy, but usually requires between
2 and 20 minutes of concentration. [Low]
   Multi-Tasking: Only characters with cortical stacks
can possess this augmentation. The character has an
advanced computer installed in their brain that uses
the data in the cortical stack to create several simulta-
neous short-term forks to handle various mental tasks.
By design, this computer automatically reintegrates
all of these forks into the character's core personality
after a maximum of 4 hours, earlier if desired. This
augmentation allows the character to both plan a
speech and engage in intensive mesh-browsing while
simultaneously fighting a gun battle or running from
pursuit, since each of the forks operates independently.
However, these forks can only perform purely mental
or on-line interactions. This augmentation can pro-
duce a maximum of two forks at a time, giving the
character an extra two Complex Actions on every
Action Phase for mental or on-line actions. This im-
plant cannot be used simultaneously with any other
augmentation that allows for extra actions, or with
the mental speed augmentation (p. 308). [High]
   Puppet Sock: This implanted computer allows the
biomorph's body (the “puppet”) to be controlled by
another character (the “puppeteer”). While active, the
puppet has no control over their body and is simply
along for the ride (at the gamemaster's discretion,
puppets who are tormented by repeated or exten-
sive loss of control may suffer mental stress). The
puppeteer may directly “jam” the puppet or remote
control it in the same way that robots and pods are
teleoperated (p. 196). The puppeteer must either be
ghost-riding the puppet (see the Ghostrider Module, p.
307) or have a direct communications link (via mesh,
radio, laser, etc.). [Moderate]

PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS
This implants enhance the morph's physical body.
  Cyberclaws: The bones on the back of the morph's
hand are bonded to smart material claws. These claws
can extend through concealed ports in the morph's
skin and extend 6 inches past the morph's knuckles.
These razor-sharp weapons inflict 1d10 + 3 + (SOM
÷ 10) damage and have an AP of –2. If combined
with eelware (p. 304), they can also inflict electric
shocks. Likewise, cyberclaws can also deliver poison
or nanotoxins secreted from a poison gland (p. 305)
or implanted nanotoxins. [Low]
  Cyberlimb: In an age when arms and legs can
easily be regrown, many people consider cybernetic
prostheses to be vulgar and distasteful. The Scum
and others, however, treat them as iconic symbols
of self-expression. Standard replacement cyberlimbs
function the same as their biological equivalents,
though that particular limb receives a +3/+3 Armor
bonus when targeted specifically (this bonus does not
apply to synthmorphs). Cyberlimbs may be masked
to look real (see Synthetic Mask, p. 311), and may
also feature small compartments for hiding/storing
small objects. [Moderate]
