   Cyberlimb Plus: More extravagant cyberlimb
models are also available, though they require more
severe body alteration to accommodate. These limbs
apply a +5 SOM bonus per limb (maximum +10).
They may be replacement limbs or “extra” limbs an-
chored in the body's skeletal frame. These cyberlimbs
may not be masked. [High]
   Hand Laser: The morph has a weapon-grade laser
implanted in its forearm, with a flexible waveguide
leading to a lens located between the first two knuck-
les on the morph's dominant hand. The laser fires
from this waveguide, inflicting 2d10 damage with 0
AP. The laser is powered by a small nuclear battery
located in the morph's torso, good for 50 shots before
it must be recharged like other beam weapon batteries
(p. 338). [Moderate]
   Hardened Skeleton: The morph's skeleton has been
laced with strengthening materials. Apply a +5 DUR
and +5 SOM bonus. [High]
   Oxygen Reserve: The morph has a miniature
oxygen tank and rebreather installed in its torso. This
implant provides the equivalent of the life support
system in a light vacsuit (p. 333), allowing the charac-
ter to breathe comfortably for up to 3 hours. It feeds
oxygen directly to the morph's blood stream, avoiding
problems with pressure changes. Implanted sensors
automatically cause the character to use the stored
oxygen if they detect poisonous or insufficient atmo-
sphere. Without vacuum sealing, the character can
only survive in vacuum for 5 minutes, but remains
conscious and active for the entire time, giving them
far more time to find shelter or a vacsuit than charac-
ters without this implant. For every hour the character
is in a breathable atmosphere, this implant recovers
one hour of oxygen storage. The implant can be fully
recharged within 15 minutes if the character is in a
high-pressure mostly oxygen atmosphere. [Low]
   Reflex Boosters: The morph's spinal column and
nervous system is rewired with superconducting
materials, boosting transmission speed. This raises
the character's REF by +10 and improves Speed by
+1. [Expensive]

NANOWARE
All augmentation nanoware is advanced nanotech-
nology (p. 328), consisting of a grape-sized nanobot
generator that produces specialized nanomachines.
Nanoware is available for synthmorphs and bots in
addition to biomorphs.
   Implanted Nanotoxins: The morph has an im-
planted nanobot hive that produces nanotoxins (p.
324). This implant is designed so that the character
can deploy these nanobots instantly via a scratch with
claws, spraying with saliva, or simply making continu-
ous bare-skin contact. Characters can choose whether
or not to deploy these nanobots. Each nanotoxin
generator only produces a single variety of nanobots,
with the most common types being ones designed to
kill or incapacitate almost any living target or ones
designed to destroy delicate machinery. Characters
are immune to their own nanotoxins. Nanotoxins
are highly restricted and many habitats will not allow
anyone with this implant on board. [Moderate]
   Medichines: This is the most common form of
nanoware. These nanobots monitor the user's body at
a cellular level and fix any problems that arise.
   Medichines eliminate most diseases, drugs, and
toxins (but not nanodrugs or nanotoxins) before
they can do more than minor harm to the host (see
Drug Effects, p. 317). If desired, the user can tempo-
rarily override this protection to permit intoxication
or other effects, but unless the character activates a
second specially labeled override, medichines prevent
the toxins from accumulating to lethal or permanently
harmful levels. In this case, they can also be activated
at a later point to reduce a drug or toxin's remaining
duration by half.
   Medichines allow the character to ignore the effects
of 1 wound. They also speed normal healing as noted
under Biomorph Healing, p. 208. If the user suffers
5 or more wounds at once, or more than 6 wounds
in an hour, the damage has exceeded the medichines'
ability to repair. In this case, the medichines place the
character into a medical stasis, where their mind and
body are perfectly preserved, but where the character
cannot act in any way. Under these circumstances the
medichines also send out a priority call for emergency
services via the character's mesh inserts.
   Medichines for synthmorphs and bots consist
of nanobots that monitor and repair the shell's
integrity and internal system functions. Note that
the synthmorph version of medichines allows the
synthmorph to self-repair in the same manner by
which a biomorph with medichines would naturally
heal (p. 208). [Low]
   Mental Speed: With this nanoware system, nano-
bots alter the character's neural architecture and
augment the functioning of their neurons. The char-
acter can deliberately speed up their mind to think
and also receive and process sensory information far
faster than ordinary humans. Time seems to subjec-
tively slow down for the character, allowing them
to carefully plan their next action, even if they only
have a split second to do so. With this system active,
the character can discern things occurring too fast
for a normal human to perceive, such as the indi-
vidual frames of an old analog film or understanding
sounds that were accelerated to many times their
normal speed. The character can also read 10 times
faster than normal and can track the paths of bullets
and similar fast-moving objects with a successful
Perception Test.
  When using this augmentation, the character gains
two extra Complex Actions during each Action Phase
that may only be used for mental actions. The charac-
ter also receives a +30 Initiative bonus. The character
thinks at normal speed whenever this nanoware is in-
active. This nanoware is incompatible with any other
augmentation that provides any form of extra actions,
such as multi-tasking. This augmentation can be used
