as often as desired, but actively using it renders ordi-
nary conversation and social interactions difficult and
requires concentration to maintain. [High]
   Nanophages: These nanobots patrol the body, alert
for signs of intrusive nanodrugs or -toxins and de-
stroying them before they have more than a minor
effect. Nanophages provide automatic immunity
against nanodrugs and nanotoxins unless they are
specifically commanded to stand down by the user, via
their mesh implants. [Moderate]
   Oracles: These neural macrosensing nanobots pay
attention to the sensory input on which the charac-
ter is not focusing, alerting them about important
things they might otherwise overlook. Oracles also
act as a sort of memory buffer and search aid, ex-
tending short term memory, helping the character
recall memories and details, and crosschecking
them with other memories. Oracles negate Percep-
tion modifi ers for distraction, apply a +10 modi-
fier to Investigation Tests, and add a +30 bonus to
memory-related tests. [Moderate]
   Respirocytes: These nanobots act as highly-efficient
artificial red blood cells, increasing the ability to
transfer oxygen and carbon dioxide. This increases
the morph's ability to hold their breath to 4 hours
and increases DUR by +5. [Moderate]
   Skillware: The morph's brain is laced with a net-
work of artificial neurons that may be formatted with
downloaded information. This allows the user to
download skillsofts (p. 332) into their brains, gaining
the use of those programmed skills until the skillsoft
is erased or replaced. Skillware systems are only
capable of handling 100 total skill points worth of
skillsofts at a time. [High]
   Skinflex: This disguise implant allows the user to
restructure their facial features and musculature and
alter skin tone and hair color. The entire process takes
a mere 20 minutes. Skinflex adds +30 to Disguise
Tests. [Moderate]
   Skinlink: Skinlink nanobots live on the morph's
external skin or shell, automatically swarming over
and creating a physical connection with any electron-
ics the user touches. They also take advantage of the
electrical field in a biomorph's skin for communica-
tion. They allow the user to communicate and mesh
with any devices merely by touching them. This
is considered a wired link, and so is not subject to
wireless interception or interference. Two skinlinked
characters can also communicate and mesh simply by
touching. [Moderate]
   Wrist-Mounted Tools: The morph has a 6 centime-
ter-wide metal band containing nanobot generators
implanted around each wrist. These nanobots link to-
gether to duplicate the function of a utilitool (p. 326),
creating narrow, highly flexible arms that each ends in
a specialized tool. These nanobots can also produce
tiny fiber optics to allow the character to see through
small openings, as well as being able to create small
weapons equal to bioware claws. The fact that these
tool are mentally controlled gives the character a +20
modifier to skills involving repairing or modifying de-
vices with mechanical parts, opening locks or disarm-
ing alarm systems, or performing first aid. [Moderate]

COSMETIC MODS
In an age of universal beauty, artistic cosmetic modi-
fication of your body is commonly pursued by many
transhumans. Body mods once considered dangerous
or edgy are now safe and commonplace, especially
among factions like the anarchists, scum, or brinkers.
   Bodysculpting: If your morph's enhanced physique
isn't enough, you can take it further with custom
bodysculpting such as as elongated ears or fingers,
nose alteration, hair addition/removal, feathers, exotic
