eyes, snakeskin, endowed genitalia, and more unusual
physical alterations. [Low]
   Nanotats: Tattoos created with nanobots can
move around the body, change shape/color/bright-
ness, texture, alternate text and images, and/or even
create minor holographic effects on the skin's sur-
face, all controllable via mesh inserts. [Low]
   Piercings: Name any part of the body and some-
one's figured out a way to pierce it, probably mul-
tiple times. Hoops, barbells, plugs, and chains are
extremely common, often made of shapechanging
smart materials. [Trivial]
   Scarification: Given modern medical abilities, scars
of any sort are purely an affectation. [Trivial]
   Scent Alteration: Minor changes to a body's bio-
chemistry can alter a character's natural smell or
constantly perfume them. [Low]
   Skindyes: Dye jobs are available in all conceivable
colors and patterns. [Trivial]
   Subdermal Implants: Adding small implants under
the skin can create bumps, ridges, piercing anchors,
and similar textures and alterations. [Trivial]

ROBOTIC ENHANCEMENTS
The following modifications are only available to
synthmorphs/robots.

ARMOR
These armor modifications replace the synthmorph's
built-in Armor rating.
   Heavy Combat Armor: The synthmorph's frame is
loaded with armor that offers protection from heavy
weapons for serious combat operations. This modi-
fication is bulky and noticeable; the bot frame is en-
cased in a heavy-duty carapace. It increases the bot's
built-in Armor to 16/16. The shell's mobility systems
and power output are also enhanced to deal with the
extra load. [High]
   Industrial Armor: The shell is equipped with protec-
tion against collisions, extreme weather, industrial ac-
cidents, and similar wear-and-tear. Increase the bot's
built-in Armor rating to 10/10. [Moderate]
   Light Combat Armor: The synthmorph's frame is
protected by armor designed for policing and secu-
rity duties. This increases the bot's built-in Armor to
14/12. [Moderate]

MOBILITY SYSTEMS
Shells are designed with a wide-range of propulsion
systems, and are sometimes built for a specific environ-
ment/gravity. Some synthmorphs may have multiple
mobility systems. Many such systems are retractable,
meaning they can be folded away into the shell's frame.
  Hopper: Hoppers have two or more legs designed
to propel the morph forward or up, much like a frog
or grasshopper. [Moderate]
  Hovercraft: The shell uses an impeller to blast a
cushion of high-pressure air off the surface below,
repelling the frame off the ground (modern hovercraft
do not use rubber skirts). Most hovercraft travel a
meter or so above the ground, but can temporarily
levitate themselves higher for short periods. [Low]
   Ionic: The shell uses principles of magnetohydro-
dynamics to levitate and fly, by ionizing surrounding
air into plasma to create lift and momentum. The
shell is also spun for stability. This system does not
work in vacuum, but an underwater version uses the
same mechanics for propulsion in liquid environ-
ments. [High]
   Microlight: Popular in low-grav and microgravity
environments, microlights encompass several types
of ultralight or lighter-than-air systems, such as pow-
ered paragliders, autogyros, balloons, aerostats, and
blimps. These systems do not work in vacuum. [Low]
   Roller: Only for circular shells, this system allows
the synthmorph to roll like a ball. The shell rolls
around an interior axle, propelled by a motor-driven
pendulum. [Moderate]
   Rotorcraft: Rotating blades create lift, allowing
the shell to move and hover like a helicopter. Most
models use tilt-rotors or tilt-wings so that the rotor-
blades may be moved forward (for faster propeller-
like propulsion) and for better maneuverability in
zero-G. This system does not work in vacuum. [Low]
   Snake: Commonly used by slitheroids, these shells
use lateral undulation, flexing their body from left to
right and waving their frame forward. Such shells may
also use sidewinding or a concertina motion (straight-
ening forward, then retracting the rear) to move. They
also featured gyroscope stabilization so that they may
circle into a hoop and roll like a wheel. [Moderate]
   Submarine: Designed for undersea mobility, subma-
rine shells use propellers or pumpjets to push through
water. [Moderate]
   Tracked: Tracked shells use smart rotating treads to
work their way across surfaces that would bog down
other ground vehicles. They can prop themselves up
in order to overcome taller obstacles or to lay them-
selves down to bridge across a ditch or crevice. [Low]
   Thrust Vector: These shells use either turbofans or
turbojets to create atmospheric lift with a set of wings.
The engines may be maneuvered to point and generate
thrust in different directions for vertical takeoffs/land-
ings and better maneuverability in zero-G. [Moderate]
   Walker: Walkers use two or more limbs to walk or
crawl across a surface. Many use grip pads (p. 305) or
magnetic systems (p. 310) to stick to surfaces. [Low]
   Wheeled: Most wheeled shells feature smart
spokes that allow the wheels to conform their shape
to obstacles and even climb stairs. Some low-grav
shells feature puncture-resistant and self-repairing
compressed-gas tires. [Low]
   Winged: Primarily used by smaller shells, this system
of four independently-controlled wings allows the
shell to hover or move rapidly in any direction. [Low]

PHYSICAL MODIFICATIONS
These mods are applied to the shell's physical frame.
  Extra Limbs: The shell is equipped with one or
more extra limbs. A character using these limbs
