 suffers an off-hand modifier (p. 193). These limbs
may be arms (with hand/grippers/etc.), legs, tentacle-
like, or otherwise articulated and/or prehensile. Some
 shells have rotational frames that allow them to move
limbs around their body. [Low]
    Fractal Digits: The synthmorph has “bush robot”
digits that are capable of splitting into smaller digits,
 and those smaller digits into micro digits, and so on
down to the micrometer scale, allowing for ultra-fine
manipulation. Apply a +20 COO modifier where such
fine manipulation is a factor (such as detailed repair
work). The bot must have functioning nanoscopic
vision (p. 311) to get this bonus. [Moderate]
    Hidden Compartment: The shell has a concealed
 aperture for a shielded interior compartment, ideal for
 storing valuables or smuggling contraband. Apply a
–30 modifier to detect this compartment either manu-
 ally or with sensor scans. [Low]
    Magnetic System: A magnetic system allows the
 shell to cling to most ferrous materials. This enables
the character to walk in zero-G situations by magneti-
 cally adhering surfaces, hang upside down, and hold
onto devices without letting them drop or drift away.
The shell receives a +30 modifier whenever maintain-
ing a magnetic hold on something. [Low]
    Modular Design: This shell is designed to lock to-
 gether with similar modular morphs in different archi-
tectural patterns to create larger gestalt forms. When
united with other modules, the group is treated as a
 single unit/morph, with shared capabilities. If dam-
 aged and then separated, damage and wounds are dis-
tributed evenly between modules; uneven amounts are
 allocated randomly. The exact capabilities of different
 shapes depends on the composition, and is largely left
in the gamemaster's hands. [High]
    Pneumatic Limbs: The limbs are equipped with
pneumatic cylinder systems that can generate up to
1,500 pounds of thrust. This allows the shell to push
off and make impressive jumps (a synth of human
 size/weight can leap over 2 meters up). Apply a +20 to
Freerunning Tests. A pneumatic limb used to strike an
opponent in unarmed combat inflicts an extra 1d10
damage. [Low]
    Retracting/Telescoping Limbs: The shell's limbs can
 either be retracted completely inside it's frame and/or
 extended for extra length (usually up to 1 or 2 meters
 extra). Telescoping limbs may give the shell a reach
 advantage in melee combat (p. 204). [Low]
    Shape Adjusting: This shell is made from smart
materials that allow it to alter its shape, altering its
height, width, circumference, and external features,
while retaining the same mass. This modification is
typically employed to reshape the morph into special
 configurations adapted to specific tasks (for example,
lengthening to crawl through a tunnel, widening its
base for stability, expanding to reach out and attach
to multiple access point simultaneously, and so on).
This mod also allows the morph to change its features
for disguise purposes; apply a +30 modifier to Dis-
 guise Tests. [High]
   Structural Enhancement: This modification bolsters
the shell's structural integrity, boosting its ability to
take damage. Increase Durability by 10 and Wound
Threshold by 2. [Moderate]
   Swarm Composition: The shell is not a single unit
but a swarm of hundreds of insect-sized robotic mi-
crodrones. Each individual “bug” is capable of crawl-
ing, rolling, hopping several meters, or using nano-
copter fan blades for airlift. The cyberbrain, sensor
systems, and implants are distributed throughout the
swarm. Though the swarm can “meld” together into
a roughly child-sized shape, the swarm is incapable of
tackling physical tasks like grabbing, lifting, or hold-
ing as a unit. Individual bugs, however, are quite ca-
pable of interfacing with electronics. Swarms cannot
carry most gear or wear armor, and may not make
strength-based SOM-linked skill tests. For combat
purposes, use the same rules as given for nanoswarms,
p. 328. Damage and wounds are reflected as dam-
aged/massacred bugs. The swarm may be “healed” by
manufacturing more bugs.[High]
   Synthetic Mask: The synthmorph is equipped
with a realistic outer casing of faux-skin and care-
fully sculpted to pass as a biomorph (perhaps even a
particular person). The morph can cry, spit, have sex,
and will even bleed if cut. Only a detailed physical
examination or a radar, teraherz, or x-ray scan will
detect the synthmorph's true nature, and even then
such exams/scans suffer a –30 modifier. [Moderate]
   Weapon Mount: The shell carries a built-in (or built-
on) weapon. This weapon mount may be either internal
(concealed, only weapons small in relation to the shell
may fit, –30 to Perception Tests to detect) or external
(visible). It may be fixed (one direction only), swiveling
(limited field of fire), or on an articulated mount (all
directions). [Low; Moderate for concealed/articulated]

SENSORS
360° Vision: The shell's visual sensors are situated for
a 360-degree field of vision. [Low]
   Chemical Sniffer: This sensor detects molecules in the
air and analyzes their chemical composition. It enables
Chemistry Tests to determine the presence of gases, in-
cluding toxins and other fumes. It can also detect the
presence of explosives and firearms. [Moderate]
   Lidar: This sensor emits laser light and measures
the reflections to judge range, speed, and image the
target. See Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]
   Nanoscopic Vision: The shell's visual sensors can
focus like a microscope, using advanced superlens
techniques to beat the optical diffraction limit and
image objects as small as a nanometer. This allows
the character to view and analyze objects as small as
blood cells and even individual nanobots. The synth-
morph must stay relatively steady to view objects at
this scale. [Moderate]
   Radar: This sensor system bounces radio or micro-
waves off targets and measures the reflected waves
to judge size, composition, and motion. See Using
Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]
