distribute the kinetic energy (though still flexible
enough at the joints not to impede movement). A spe-
cialized hive, worn by the character, replenishes the
nanobots and stores them when not in use. Deploying
the nanobots across the body takes a full Action Turn.
Smart skin has an Armor Value of 3/2, and may be
worn with other armor without penalty. [Low]
  Spray Armor: This fast armor application comes in
a spray can and disperses a smart chemical polymer
that sticks to bare flesh (but does not adhere to hair
and eyes). The polymer solidifies into a form fitting
body armor fabric when exposed to body temperature
with the look and feel of a latex suit. Spray armor
does not work on synthetic morphs or on clothing or
other armor. The color and feel of the armor can be
adjusted with electric currents and additional poly-
mers, making it popular among some socialite and
nightlife scenes. The spray-on armor does not wash
off, but degrades 1 point of armor (both energy and
kinetic) every 12 hours. It may be removed with a
special nanotech solvent. Spray armor has an Armor
Value of 2/2. [Low]

ARMOR MODS
Armor modifications add extra materials or coatings
that either enhance the armor's resistance to certain
dangers or provide other effects. Armor mods may be
easily added or removed with the appropriate nano-
bot applicators.
   Ablative Patches: These thin and light slap-on
patches of stick to armor and are designed to absorb
heat and energy from beams and explosions, safely
vaporizing and blowing hot gas away. Ablative
patches increases the Armor Value by +4/+2, but each
hit reduces both the energy and kinetic value of the
ablative armor by 1. [Trivial]
   Chameleon Coating: This provides the armor with
the same effect as the chameleon cloak (p. 315). [Trivial]
   Fireproofing: Fireproofing includes the addition of
heat-resistant ceramic or fire-resistant layers, both
capable of withstanding extremely high temperatures.
Fireproofing increases the Armor Value by +2/+0, and
provides an additional 10 points of armor against
heat or fire specifically. [Trivial]
   Immunogenic System: The immunogenic mod
adds an active nanobot swarm, maintained by a spe-
cialized hive, that coats the outer layer of armor and
also the non-armored parts of the wearer's morph.
It acts as an outer immune system designed to neu-
tralize toxic agents and nanotoxins with which it
comes into contact. This provides immunity to drugs,
toxins, and nanotoxins applied dermally, such as
with a slap patch or splash grenade. It has no effect
on inhaled, oral, or injected drugs (including coated
weapons). [Low]
   Lotus Coating: The armor has been impregnated
with a superhydrophic coating (contact angle of
around 170°) that repels all water-like liquids. If the
armor is splashed by liquid toxins or chemicals, the
effect is reduced since the liquids starts to roll off the
armor. Apply a +30 modifier when defending against
liquid-based attacks. [Trivial]
   Offensive Armor: When activated, the outer layer of
this armor is rigged to shock anyone or anything that
contacts it with electricity. Treat its DV and effect as a
shock baton (p. 334). [Low]
   Reactive Coating: A thick layer of advanced
nanotech is applied to the armor, protecting it with
a colony of nanobots designed to sense incoming
attacks. When an attack strikes the coating, it deto-
nates to disrupt the attack. Bursts and full autofire
are treated as a single attack. A reactive coating
increases the Armor Value by +5/+5, but each deto-
nation automatically inflicts 1 point of damage on
the wearer. Reactive armor also works against melee
attacks, but the attacker also suffers 1d10 ÷ 2 (round
up) points of damage per attack (armor protects)
from the microexplosion. Reactive coating only
works against 5 attacks, after which the specialized
nanobot hive replenishes the coating at the rate of 1
use per hour. [Moderate]
   Refractive Glazing: A combination of reflectors,
refractive metamaterials, and an energy transfer
system with heat radiators provides extra protection
against energy weapons. Increase the Armor Value
by +3/+0. [Low]
   Self-Healing: The armor is equipped with a nano-
hive that acts like repair spray (p. 333). [Moderate]
   Shock Proof: Shock proof armor is electronically
insulated to discharge and reduce the effect of shock
weapons. Apply an additional +10 modifier when resist-
ing the DV and effects of shock weapons (p. 204). [Low]
   Thermal Dampening: Thermal dampening obfus-
cates heat signatures by converting body heat into
electric energy. It makes the target more difficult to
spot with thermal sensors; apply a –30 modifier for
Perception Tests. [Moderate]

COMMUNICATIONS
The oldest and most widespread communications
technology still in regular use is radio. Every habitat
and world inhabited by transhumanity is awash in
radio traffic, with humans, machines, and uplifts all
constantly communicating with one another. The
smallest radios are no larger than a spec of dust and
have a range of no more than 20 meters, while the
largest are the size of a truck and have a range of
many thousands of miles. Radios large and small are
ubiquitous and almost all devices contain at least
short-range radios so they may interact with the
mesh. Most morphs are equipped with basic mesh
inserts (p. 300) that include an implanted radio. For
radio ranges, see p. 296.
  Fiberoptic Cable: Fiberoptic cables are used to
establish wired connections between two devices.
Given the ubiquity of radios and the tangled mess
wires cause, they are typically only used for privacy
(unlike radio communication, fiberoptic signals may
not be intercepted) or in areas with heavy radio
interference. [Trivial]
