   Laser/Microwave Link: These portable devices are
used to establish a tight-beam, line-of-sight commu-
nications channel with another laser or microwave
link. The range of these transceivers varies widely
with environmental factors, but approximates 50
kilometers in atmosphere and 500 kilometers in
space (though horizon limits must be kept in mind,
being 5 kilometers at ground level on Earth and less
on smaller bodies). Lasers are subject to interference
from fog, dirt, smoke, and similar visual chaff, while
microwaves may be hindered by metallic obstructions.
These links may only be intercepted by getting directly
in between the beams. Some teams carry a micro ver-
sion of this system, worn on their person, allowing
line of sight intra-team communications that cannot
be intercepted like radio. [Moderate]
   Radio Booster: This device boosts the range and
sensitivity of short-range radios, like those from im-
plants, ectos, or microbugs. The booster must be with
the shorter-ranged device's range (or directly linked
via fiberoptic cable). It will repeat any transmissions
received from that device, but at its extended range of
25 kilometers in urban areas (250 kilometers remote
areas). Broadcasts from a radio booster are easy to
receive by anyone looking for broadcasts (see Wire-
less Scanning, p. 251), though transmissions may be
stealthed (p. 252). Boosters are commonly used by
characters traveling far from habitats or other civi-
lized regions. [Low]

NEUTRINO COMMUNICATORS
Neutrinos are particles that can pass through any
solid matter with ease and are impossible to block. As
a result, they make an ideal medium for communica-
tions. Unfortunately, they are also easy to intercept.
Even a tight beam of neutrinos sent between two lo-
cations can be intercepted simply by placing another
receiver behind the location the broadcaster is sending
to. Neutrino communicators require a large power
plant to power the high energy particle interactions
required to generate the neutrino broadcast. Neutrino
receivers are also relatively large, with the smallest
occupying 100 cubic meters. In most cases, neutrino
communicators are designed to broadcast neutrinos
in all directions, though tight-beam transmissions are
also possible. Quite often neutrino communications
take advantage of quantum farcasting for security.
   Neutrino Transceiver: This transceiver is capable of
generating and receiving neutrino signals at a range of
at least 100 astronomical units. It is large, with a size
of 8 cubic meters (in a cube 2 meters on a side), but
they can be loaded onto large vehicles. To function, it
must be connected to a large power plant, such as one
found in habitats or large spacecraft. The cost and
size of this device includes the computer necessary for
quantum farcasting. [Expensive]

QUANTUM FARCASTERS
Quantum farcasters are special computers designed to
protect a communications channel (such as fiberoptic,
radio, laser/microwave, or neutrino) with unbreak-
able encryption. To function, two or more quantum
farcaster computers must first be entangled together
(on a quantum level) in the same physical location.
The farcasters may then be separated, at which point
they may continue to exchange encrypted data via
quantum teleportation. This data exchange requires
a standard communications link (fiberoptic, radio,
laser/microwave, or neutrino), and so is limited by
the speed of light, but it is a high bandwidth form
of communications. The quantum encryption used
by these entangled farcasters is unbreakable, and any
attempted interception is immediately detected and
neutralized. A quantum farcaster may not be used to
securely communicate with any farcasters other than
the ones it is entangled with.
