   Because it is exceptionally safe and secure, quantum
farcasting via neutrino communications is the primary
means of both long-distance communication between
habitats and egocasting (p. 276). The neutrino signal
cannot be blocked and it can only be decrypted if a
character has access to the computer that is sending
or receiving the signal.
  Miniature Radio Farcaster: Miniature farcasters
communicate with each other using standard radio
transceivers. As noted above, they may only securely
communicate with the other farcasters with which they
are entangled. Most miniature farcasters are worn as
jewelry or fitted into clothing or other equipment. [Low]

QUANTUM ENTANGLED COMMUNICATION
The rarest form of communications is quantum en-
tangled (QE) communication. QE communication is
instantaneous and works over any distance, but is
also very limited. QE communication requires pairs
of entangled particles known as qubits. To use QE,
large number of pairs of qubits are created and then
separated from each other. Millions of these sepa-
rated pairs of particles are stored in special containers
known as qubit reservoirs. If two QE communicators
each have a qubit reservoir containing qubits that are
each entangled with qubits in the other communica-
tor's qubit reservoir, then characters can use the two
QE communicators to commutate with one another
instantaneously. Characters can use QE to instantly
communicate between any two locations, even if one
character is in the solar system and the other has
passed through a Pandora gate and is standing on a
planet 500 light years away.
   Each bit of data transmitted between these two QE
comms uses up one qubit. Once all of the qubits are
used up, the two QE comms can no longer communi-
cate with each other until they each get a new batch
of entangled qubits. Qubits are expensive to produce,
contain, and transport, making this an exceedingly
expensive form of communication. As a result, ex-
tremely high bandwidth communications like full
sensory AR and egocasting cannot be performed using
QE communication.
   Portable QE Comm: This is a handheld FTL com-
munications device. The actual communications unit
can be made as small as desired, but must be large
enough to connect to or hold a qubit reservoir. Be-
cause qubit reservoirs are relatively large and must be
replaced, they are rarely implanted. Some miniature
farcasters are designed so that users can also attach
qubit reservoirs to enable them to be used for both
light speed and FTL communication. [Low]
   Low-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: Low-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 10 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 100 hours
of voice or text only communications. [High]
   High-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: High-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 100 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 1,000 hours
of voice or text only communications. [Expensive]
  BUGS AND
  SURVEILLANCE
  Though surveillance technologies are pervasive
  and easy to come by in Eclipse Phase, secretly
  obtaining information on someone who wants
  to retain privacy can be quite difficult. Micro-
  bugs, smart dust, and similar recording devices
  that are all but invisible may be exceptionally
  easy to put into place, but once they begin ac-
  tively transmitting, they are easy to to detect
  (see Wireless Scanning, p. 251). An eavesdropper
  may attempt to stealth the signal (see Stealthed
  Signals, p. 252), but this is not guaranteed to
  work. Once a signal is detected, locating the
  broadcasting device is usually just a matter of
  time (see Tracking, p. 251).
     Some recording devices attempt to avoid this
  problem by using miniature quantum farcasters
  (p. 314), but those are far larger and more dif-
  ficult to hide. Often the most effective way to
  acquire discrete information is to plant a surveil-
  lance device, set to record but not transmit, and
  then retrieve it later. While doing this is often
  difficult and risky, the recording device never
  reveals its presence by broadcasting and so is
  more difficult to detect.                        ■




COVERT AND ESPIONAGE TECHNOLOGIES
These technologies allow characters to acquire pro-
tected information and to gain access to places that
others try to keep them out of. Many of these devices
are mesh-capable and equipped with radios, see p. 296
for radio ranges.
   Chameleon Cloak: This loose, poncho-like cloak
contains a network of sensors that perceive wave-
lengths from microwave to ultra-violet. A similar net-
work of miniature emitters precisely replicate the in-
formation its sensors receive, making the wearer seem
transparent to those wavelengths. A chameleon cloak
allows a character to effectively become invisible as
long as they are stationary or not moving faster than
a slow walk. When worn by someone moving faster,
the cloak still provides a +30 modifier to Infiltration
Tests to avoid being seen or noticed.
   Chameleon cloaks are not effective against radar,
x-ray, or gamma-ray sensors. They do hide the char-
acter from thermal infrared, however, by absorbing
the character's body heat into its heat sink. The cloak
can only absorb a character's body heat for one hour
before it must emit this heat. Heat emission also re-
quires one hour, during which time the character is
easily visible in the thermal infrared spectrum. [Low]
   Covert Operations Tool (COT): This handheld
device is the ultimate in infiltration technology. It con-
tains both smart matter micromanipulators, cutting
