tools, and an advanced nanotechnology generator
capable of producing nanobots that can bore or cut
through almost any material and disable or open
almost any electronic lock.
   Cutting out a lock or boring a 1-millimeter hole in
a wall with a COT requires ((Durability + Armor) ÷
10) seconds. Cutting out a 1-meter diameter hole in
a wall requires ((Durability + Armor) ÷ 10) minutes.
These same nanobots can later be used to repair this
damage so that it is invisible to any but the most care-
ful and detailed examination.
   A COT can easily open any old-fashioned mechani-
cal lock simply by analyzing it and shaping an ap-
propriate key, though this takes a full Action Turn.
It can also open electronic locks by infiltrating them
with nanobots that influence the lock's electronics,
no matter what authentication system the lock uses.
Opening electronic locks takes a full Action Turn, but
success is practically guaranteed. Opening an elec-
tronic lock in this manner will, however, trigger an
alarm and/or be logged as an event. For more details,
see Electronic Locks, p. 291. [High]
   Cuffband: This smart plastic loop restricts around
a prisoner's limbs when activated. If the prisoner
struggles, it will tighten more. Cuffbands will inform
the user if they are cut or loosened and are electron-
ically-controlled, so the user can release the prisoner
remotely. Some cuffband variants including a shock
system (treat as a shock baton, p. 334) to zap and
restrain unruly prisoners. [Low]
   Dazzler: The dazzler is a tiny laser system set on
a rotating ball. When activated, it consistently spins
and emits laser pulses in all directions. These laser
pulses are not dangerous, but they detect the lenses
of camera systems (including specs, viewers, and bot/
synthmorph sensors) and repeatedly zap them with
laser pulses of varying strength to overload and dazzle
them. For as long as a dazzler is active, any camera
system (visual, infrared, and ultraviolet) within line
of sight and within 200 meters is blinded. [Moderate]
   Disabler: This handy device emits an overloading
surge that completely incapacitates and disables a
synthetic morph or pod (anything with a cyberbrain)
when it is plugged into an access jack and activated.
The affected cyberbrain will be unable to function until
the signal is deactivated, effectively shutting down the
ego (or AI). In order to plug a disabler into an unwill-
ing target, the target must first be grappled or a called
shot must be successfully made in melee combat. This
device does not work on larger synthetic morphs (like
vehicles) or on cyberbrainless robots.[High]
   Fiber Eye: This is a flexible and electronically-con-
trollable length of fiberoptic cable and viewer, which
can be worked through cracks, under doors, and
around corners to peep unobtrusively. [Low]
   Invisibility Cloak: This cloak is made of metama-
terials with a negative refractive index, so that light
actually bends around it, making it and anything it
covers invisible. This invisibility works from the
microwave to ultraviolet spectrums, but not against
radar or x-rays. The drawback is that anything con-
cealed within the cloak can't see out. This is easily
overcome by using external sensor feeds (if available)
and entoptics to navigate. Alternately, a small piece of
anti-cloak, which cancels the cloak's invisibility prop-
erties when touched together, can be used to create a
small window to peep out of, though this increases
the chance of being spotted. Noticing such a window
requires a Perception Test with a –30 modifier. [High]
   Microbug: This device is a tiny camera and micro-
phone 1 millimeter across. It has the visual capabili-
ties of a set of specs (p. 325). It can hear everything
within 20 meters and see everything within the same
range that is in its line of sight. A microbug can record
up to 100 hours of information. Microbugs can be
set to broadcast continuously, at set intervals, or only
when they receive a special signal. If desired, they
can also be set to only record if there is movement
or voices in the room they are in. Microbugs have
adhesive backs and can stick to almost any surface.
Microbugs can also establish their location via mesh
positioning or GPS, and so double as tracking devices.
To avoid being detected by their radio transmissions,
some microbugs are attached to miniature quantum
farcasters (p. 314). These microbugs are much larger
(1 centimeter) and easy to see, but their transmissions
cannot be detected or blocked. [Trivial, Low for quan-
tum farcaster bugs]
   Prisoner Mask: This hood tightens around the
head of a prisoner, blocks all vision frequencies, and
engages in low-level jamming in order to prevent any
wireless communication via mesh inserts. [Medium]
   Psi Jammer: This device jams frequencies used
by brainwaves within a 20-meter radius. This has
no effect on brain functions, but it does prevent
any ranged used of psi sleights within this area of
effect. [Moderate]
   Quantum Computer: These advanced devices
make use of quantum computation, allowing them
to handle extremely large numbers with ease. This
makes them especially useful for codebreaking, as
noted on p. 254. [Expensive]
   Smart Dust: This device is a walnut-sized special-
ized nanobot generator that creates tiny sensor nano-
bots, each one of which is a tiny sphere the diameter
of a human hair. A packet of smart dust nanobots is
sufficient to perform detailed surveillance on a large
room like an auditorium has a volume of 1 cubic
centimeter and contains 3 million nanobots. Each
nanobot contains tiny cameras, microphones, a tiny
computer, a radio, and chemical sensors, as well as
short legs that allow them to walk and climb at a rate
of 5 cm per second.
   When a character dumps a packet of smart dust in
a room, it will cover every surface in the room within
20 minutes, including all furniture and the insides
of every drawer and other space that is not airtight.
At this point, the smart dust has recorded all data
about the room that can be obtained by exceedingly
detailed observation, including the DNA of everyone
