who has visited the room in the last week or two. The
smart dust can then either broadcast a brief, highly
compressed signal, or it can send all of its informa-
tion to a few hundred nanobots that then walk to a
pre-arranged destination for pickup and downloading
by their user. The user need only find a single nano-
bot with a nanodetector to acquire the information
obtained by the smart dust. If ordered to do so, the
remaining nanobots can either power down and await
further orders or self-destruct in a fashion that turns
them into a tiny amount of dust made mostly of metal
and silicon. [Moderate]
   Traction Pads: This set of specialized fingerless
gloves, shoes, and kneepads is designed to emulate the
pads on geckos' feet. Characters can support them-
selves on a wall or ceiling by placing any two of these
pads against any surface not made from a material
specially designed to resist such devices. Characters
can climb any surface and move easily across walls
and ceilings that can support their weight (+30 to
Climbing Tests). In addition to climbing, these devices
are also very popular in zero-g environments. Wearing
this item does not impair the user's agility or manual
dexterity. [Low]
  White Noise Machine: This small and wearable
device generates masking sounds that protect a con-
versation from being audibly recorded or overheard
by anyone not in the immediate vicinity. [Trivial]
  X-Ray Emitter: This device is designed to be used
with either the enhanced vision augmentation (p.
301) or specs (p. 325). It emits a focused beam of
low-powered x-rays that allows the user of either
device to both see and see through most objects using
backscatter x-ray radiation (p. 303). This allows the
character to literally see through walls and into con-
tainers, including ones made of metal. [Low]



DRUGS, CHEMICALS, AND TOXINS
In Eclipse Phase, the transhuman desire to enhance
the body and mind—especially with chemicals—
merges right into humanity's popular pastime of
recreational substance abuse. Drugs of all kinds,
whether they be chemical, nano-based, or electronic,
are not only popular but widespread. While advances
in biotechnology have eliminated many of the side
effects that once plagued drug users, transhuman
bodies remain complicated environments, and so side
effects (especially with long-term use) are still a factor.
Additionally, addiction is always a consideration for
anyone who gets comfortable with popping the same
pills too often, though there are also drugs for addic-
tion of course
   Drug descriptions include benefits, side effects, no-
ticeable signs that a person is using the drug, addictive-
ness, and effects from long-term use). Descriptions also
include the drug's Duration and its Addiction Modifier
(see Addiction and Substance Abuse).
SUBSTANCE RULES
These rules explain how to handle drugs and toxins.

CLASSIFICATION OF SUBSTANCES
Substances fall into four categories:
   Chemicals: These are pharmacologically-active
small chemical compounds (toxins, pharmaceuticals,
chemical drugs) that have been produced by chemical
synthesis, nanotech fabrication, or enzymatic biosyn-
thesis in (transgenic) organisms. They include natural-
ly-occurring drugs from known species of (exo-)flora
and fauna, endotoxins produced by biological organ-
isms, enhancements of endogenic substances (designer
drugs), and de novo developments designed for a
specific medical or recreational application. Chemical
drugs affect only biological morphs and pods.
   Biologicals: These include peptides, hormones, and
biologically-based substances like biotoxins, bacteria,
and viral organisms—drugs devised or based on
naturally-occurring endogenic biological substances.
This category also includes infectious biological or-
ganisms that can produce drug-like effects, like virii
and bacteria. Biologicals affect biomorphs and pods
but not synthetic morphs or infomorphs.
   Nanodrugs: These are temporary nanobot colonies
programmed to create a certain effect. While nano-
bots are generally able to target or infect all morph
types except infomorphs, exactly which morphs are
affected usually depends on the pre-programmed
effect (i.e., whether it targets a biological or mechani-
cal mechanism).
   Electronic: Electronic drugs include software and
technology that affect the brain directly, such as ma-
nipulative XP programs or retro-tech like transcranial
magnetic stimulation or cranial electrotherapy. It also
includes narcoalgorithms—programs that reproduce
drug-like effects for AIs, infomorphs, and egos resid-
ing in cyberbrains.

APPLICATION METHODS
There are number of vectors by which a substance
may be applied to a morph.
   Dermal (D): This drug or toxin is absorbed via
the skin (or exterior hull with some nanotoxins) as
either a gas, liquid, or solid (e.g., paste). Slap patches
and slap bands are commonly used, loaded with the
chemical DMSO, which transfers the drug through
the skin.
   Inhalation (INH): This is a gas that is breathed into
the lungs or snorted nasally. Used for inhalers, aero-
sols, powders, and gas grenades/seekers.
   Injected (INJ): This liquid is applied via either
an intramuscular or intravenous injection. Used for
needles and piercing weapons.
   Oral (O): This is a liquid or solid that is absorbed
through the stomach or oral cavity (eating or drink-
ing). Used with pills and liquids.
