DRUG EFFECTS
If a character is exposed to a drug via its method of
application—for example, they pop a pill, slap on
a dermal patch, are soaked with a splash grenade,
breathe in gas, or get stabbed with a coated weapon—
then they are subject to the drug's effects. The onset
time determines how long these effects take to kick in,
and the duration determines how long they last.
   While there is no resistance test to ignore a drug or
toxin's effects once exposed, in some cases (especially
toxins) a test might be called for to determine the
severity of the effects.
   Unless otherwise noted or specifically overridden,
medichines (p. 308) will protect a character from
drug/toxin effects (but not nanodrugs/nanotoxins).
Enhancements like toxin filters (p. 305) may also
impede a drug's effect or provide complete resistance.
If an antidote is taken in advance or before the effects
kick in, the drug will not work.

ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Some drugs are addictive, either physically (affect-
ing the morph) or mentally (affecting the ego)—and
sometimes both. Every time a character uses the drug
(or after an appropriate amount of use, as determined
by the gamemaster), they must make a WIL x 3 Test to
avoid addiction. Each drug has an Addiction Modifier
that will modify this test.
   Failure indicates that the character has become
addicted—they immediately acquire the Addiction
negative trait (p. 148). Addiction is measured in three
levels: Minor, Moderate, and Major. The severity de-
termines how often an addicted character needs the
drug and what the negative effects of not using the
drug are.
   An addicted character must continue to make WIL
x 3 Tests as they use the drug, as determined by the
gamemaster. Failure indicates the character's addic-
tion severity increases.
   The negative effects from not using a drug end
whenever the character does the drug again. Durabil-
ity and Lucidity penalties are not damage, but tempo-
rary decreases to the character's maximum values; the
character immediately regains the lost Durability or
Lucidity when they do the drug again.
   Addiction is of indefinite duration. To clean up,
the character must stay off the drug for 1 week for
each level of addiction. Resisting this craving is dif-
ficult, and should at least require another WIL x 3
Test, modified by the drug's Addiction modifier. Play-
ers and gamemasters are encouraged to roleplay an
attempt to kick a habit. Each week the character is
off the drug, the addiction drops by one level. When
it reaches 0, the character is clean ... though there is
always danger of a relapse.
   Physical addictions do not carry over to a new
morph if the character resleeves, but mental ad-
dictions do. If the character uploads and resleeves,
the mental addictions persist, and the morph the
character leaves behind remains physically addicted.
This means that poor or unlucky characters may
occasionally find themselves resleeved into a morph
that has a physical addiction. In this case, the charac-
ter is subject to the physical addictiveness of the drug
but not the mental addiction, although if they break
down and indulge in the drug, they may themself
become physically addicted.
  Characters who resleeve as infomorphs can remain
mentally addicted to a substance despite no longer
having a body. The market is always happy to provide,
though; a wide variety of narcoalgorithms mirroring
the effects of most of the drugs described below are
available for infomorphs and AIs. For the infomorph-
ported narcoalgorithm version of any physically-
only addictive drug described below, consider the
Addictiveness to be effectively physical. The character
remains addicted as long as they are an infomorph,
but they do not remain addicted if they sleeve into a
physical morph.

DRUGS
The drugs described here are usually (but not always
beneficial), and are typically taken intentionally. Drugs
and chemicals used offensively are described under
Chemicals and Toxins, both on p. 323.
  Note that the drugs here are just a representative
sampling. There are thousands if not millions of
drugs in circulation in Eclipse Phase—gamemasters
are encouraged to introduce their own, using these
as guidelines.

COGNITIVE DRUGS
 Nootropics and similar drugs are intended to boost
 the user's mental faculties.
    Drive: This nootropic speeds up left-right brain
 hemisphere communication, stimulates idea produc-
 tion, and improves concentration, with no usual side
 effects. Users receive a +5 bonus to COG while the
 drug lasts. [Low]
    Klar: Klar boosts alertness and enhances clarity and
 perception. Users report a feeling of being “elevated”
 to a higher level. They receive +5 INT while the drug
 lasts. [Low]
    Neem: Neem is a mnemonic drug that works by
“tagging” experiences and mental input with a set of
 unique sensations that contribute to the formation
 of state-based memories. Neem gummy chews come
 in a variety of fruit flavors shaped like extinct old
 Earth animals. Neem gives characters a +20 bonus
 on COG Tests to recall information they learned
 while on Neem (see Memorizing and Remembering,
 p. 176). The drawback to Neem is that memories they
 accumulate while under the drug's influence have no
 emotional association. For example, a character who
 witnessed something horrible happening to a friend
 or who had a fight with a romantic partner while on
 Neem would feel no emotional connection whatsoever
 to what happened. [Moderate]
