COMBAT DRUGS
Combat drugs are an easy way of evening the odds
in a fight.
   BringIt: In some respects more a social than a
combat drug, BringIt stimulates massive bursts of ag-
gression pheromones designed to make the user the
center of attention in a fight. In combat, opponents
within 3 meters of the character not already in un-
armed or melee combat with another character must
pass a WIL x 3 Test or attack the character using Br-
ingIt. The nature of airborne pheromones is imprecise,
however, so if the character using BringIt is within
1 meter of another character hostile to the character
affected, the affected character may opt to attack the
proximate character instead of the BringIt user. Char-
acters using this drug suffer a –20 modifier on social
skill tests. [Low]
   Grin: Grin is an effective opiate and pain sup-
pressant. Users may ignore the –10 modifiers from
2 wounds (not cumulative with similar effects), and
in fact may not even be aware they are injured. Grin
users suffer from tunnel vision, however, and so suffer
a –10 modifier on Perception Tests. [Low]
   Kick: Kick is a strong stimulant that increases the
user's response time and puts them on edge. The char-
acter gains +10 REF and +1 Speed for the duration of
the drug. Characters under the influence of Kick are
twitchy, however, reacting in a jumpy, cat-like fashion
to sudden or unexpected stimuli. At the gamemaster's
discretion, they must make a WIL x 2 Test or react
without thinking towards unexpected noises or other
surprises. Long-term users suffer –5 COO. [Moderate]
   MRDR: MRDR is a straightforward and brutal
combat drug. It increases pain tolerance, speed, and
strength. The character receives +10 SOM, +1 Speed,
+10 Durability, and may ignore the –10 modifier of
one wound. Any damage incurred while under the
effects of the drug is taken from the bonus Durabil-
ity first. MRDR users are easily identifiable by the
broken blood vessels in their eyes, tense posture, and
visible tension in the muscles of the face, arms, and
legs. Long-term users suffer –5 SOM. [Low]
   Phlo: Phlo increases alertness and coordination,
making the user more graceful and nimble in a fray.
The character gains +5 COO and +10 on Perception
Tests for the duration of the drug. Everything feels
possible to a character on Phlo, and so they are vul-
nerable to being goaded into actions that might be
foolish or dangerous (apply a –10 modifier to appro-
priate Social Skill Tests). [Moderate]

HEALTH DRUGS
Pharma-foods that boost the consumer's health and
physical state are common.
  Bananas Furiosas: This drug reverses some of the
effects of de-ionizing radiation on the cells of the
body. Although a pill form is available, it most com-
monly comes in large bunches of bright orange-red
bananas. Bananas reduce the severity of a radiation
dosage (gamemaster determines effect). [Low]
