 and coherent or logical thinking. Long-term users may
 suffer the COG penalty even when not on the drug;
 on it, they may be worse. [High]
    Hither: Want to ooze sexy like a pleasure morph
 on a hot tin roof? For those desiring that slinky je-ne-
 sais-quoi, Hither is the tool. Hither is a clear, slippery
 gel, sometimes with a faint, musky, floral scent. Hither
 is applied to parts of the body with large concentra-
 tions of sweat glands, where the skin quickly absorbs
 it. Hither is a mild euphoriant, imparting a feeling of
 confidence and you-know-you-want-it-ness to the user.
 It also stimulates abundant production of lust phero-
 mones. The character gains a +10 bonus on Persuasion
 Tests against targets who are possible to seduce. At the
 gamemaster's discretion, this extends to Deception,
 Impersonate, and Networking Tests. [Low]
    Juice: This potent anti-depressant makes it almost
 impossible to have bad feelings or negative thoughts.
 The character is unnaturally happy—often irritatingly
 or strangely so. The character receives a +30 bonus
 against fear or attempts to manipulate their emotions
 in a negative direction, but is also likely to act inap-
 propriately, like giggling over the massive amount of
 spilled blood or cheerfully changing the subject to
 inane topics when someone else is freaking out. [Low]

 NANODRUGS
 Nanodrugs are temporary nanobot infestations that
 apply a specific effect.
    Frequency: Frequency (or Freeq) is a nanodrug de-
 signed as a tool for scientific visualization. It releases
 a small swarm of nanobots into the character's blood-
 stream that settle in the epidermis, where they act as
 sensors of electromagnetic radiation. This sensory
 input is then injected into the character's visual and
 tactile sensoria, hitting the user with a sequence of
 novel stimuli, typically a light show or weird tactile
 sensations. Aside from its recreational uses, Frequency
 is good at picking up on localized field radiation with
 a standard Perception Test. A character can take ad-
 vantage of this to spot sensors and hidden electronics.
 Similar to now-obsolete 20th-century hallucinogens
 like LSD and psilocybin, however, a Frequency trip
 can be disorienting and upsetting (the gamemaster
 should apply any modifiers, mental stress, or even
 trauma as they feel appropriate). Characters typically
 experience a period about 1/3 of the way through
 their trip in which sensory input is extremely intense;
 during this period, which usually lasts about 2 hours,
 they are unable to read. [Moderate]



                                                     NANO
NANODRUGS                  TYPE            APPLICATION
Frequency                  Nano                Inj, O
Gravy                      Nano                Inj, O
Petals                     Nano                  O
Schizo                     Nano                 Inj
     OTHER NANODRUGS
     Nanodrugs have the capability of making fun-
     damental changes to a body's biochemistry and
     mental state. The potential effects are too nu-
     merous to list, but gamemasters should consider
     allowing nanodrugs that temporarily apply cer-
     tain traits, such as Brave, Direction Sense, Math
     Wiz, Pain Tolerance, Psi Chameleon, Psi Defense,
     Situational Awareness, Tough, Feeble, Frail, Low
     Pain Tolerance, Mental Disorder, Mild Allergy,
     Neural Damage, Psi Vulnerability, Severe Al-
     lergy, Timid, VR Conditioning, VR Vertigo, Weak
     Immune System, or Zero-G Nausea. Similarly,
     the nanodrug could force the character into a
     particular mental emotional state, such as a bad
     mood, edginess, contentment, or overconfi-
     dence. Gamemasters are encouraged to experi-
     ment with different possibilities and effects. ■



      Gravy: Gravy assists characters in acclimating to
   high gravity environments. It comes in a variety of
   flavors and is often added as a sauce to food. For
   Gravy to be 100% effective, the character must begin
   using it in advance. Reduce penalties for high-gravity
   acclimation by 20. [Low]
      Schizo: Schizo is a nanodrug that mirrors the ef-
   fects of paranoid schizophrenia. It is popular in
   some hyperelite social circles as a truly daring and
   intriguing experience. A dose of schizo looks like a
   disposable antique razor blade. Making an incision
   in the skin releases a swarm of nanobots that travel
   to the central nervous system and induce the effects
   of the drug. While in effect, the character is severely
   paranoid and hears voices. How this plays out is at
   the discretion of the gamemaster, but should include
   irrational fears, unusual compulsions based on the
   instructions of the voice or voices, and a strong pos-
   sibility that the character will behave in a violent or
   destructive fashion. The character may make WIL x 3
   Tests to avoid violent acts against objects or strangers.
   Friends and trusted acquaintances are probably less
   likely to be targets of violence (+30 modifier to avoid
   hurting people the character cares about or destroy-
   ing important possessions). Note that the character's
   muse is unaffected by Schizo and can make efforts
   to babysit the character. Characters who take Schizo
   suffer 1d10 mental stress. [Low]



RUGS
URATION         ADDICTION MODIFIER         ADDICTION TYPE
 8 hours                  –10                   Mental
 special                  —                       —
hours–1 day           +10 to –20                Mental
  1 day                   —                     Mental
