SAMPLE PETALS
A few examples of Petal experiences:

FORGOTTEN HAND
One of the character's hands detaches and makes a
run for it. The character is conscious and able to in-
teract normally with the real world, but they cannot
perceive the “escaped” hand and firmly believe that
it's getting away. The hand will lead the character
a merry chase, but at some point, a new hand ap-
pears on the character's wrist. It may be glittery and
opalescent, demonic and clawed, or bestial. Eventu-
ally, after an hour or two, the character will catch up
to their hand, but to get rid of their new hand and
re-attach the old, they must answer cryptic questions
posed by a gnome-like being.

DARKLY SELVING
This petal is believed to achieve many of its effects
by connecting to the mesh, where an AI observes
and controls some of the event flow, and only
works for multiple trippers. Like Forgotten Hand,
it works by overlaying AR perceptions on the real
world, but because of the effects, it's highly inadvis-
able to take in places where any non-trippers will
be present. Darkly Selving creates an epsilon fork
of each character tripping and sleeves the fork in
an infomorph that looks like a demonic version of
themself, using visual input from the character's
co-trippers. AR overlays cause the characters to per-
ceive themselves as angelic beings, while the real-
seeming demonic infomorphs appear as AR overlays
on their real world perceptions. What happens next
varies, but generally both the characters and their
forks are subjected to a series of strong chemical




  PETALS
 Petals is a term for a type of narrative hallucinogen,
 a nanodrug that hijacks the senses and takes the user
 on a game-like, highly immersive trip. Known by a
 myriad of intriguing names—Forgotten Hand, Darkly
 Selving, Inquisitive Green, to name a few—Petals are
 post-Fall society's heroin—the drug of choice for the
 desperate and fucked. Petals almost always appear as
 nanopharmaceutical flowers, potted or with a nutrient
 pack attached to the stem. Plucking and swallowing
 the petals from the flower triggers the effects imme-
 diately. Flowers have 5-10 petals. Multiple users may
 share the experience if they take the Petals within 1
 minute of the first one being plucked; after this all
 petals remaining on the flower fade to translucent
 white and become inert.
   Petal experiences are like entire scenarios in and of
 themselves. Some take place entirely in the user's mesh
 inserts (the user must cede control of their implants
  d narcoalgorithmic stimuli, ranging from Hither-
 e effects to massive doses of MRDR (or sometimes
oth). The effects directed against the forks are
  nerally much more intense. The objective—hinted
  via environmental clues—is to merge with one's
 rk, which can be accomplished in a variety of ways,
 nging from hunting them down and eating their
  art to solving a puzzle or reaching a goal before
 eir forks can.

 ELPHINIUM SIX
 e last and rarest in a series of petals, Delphinium
x is the Grail of petal users, a supposedly tran-
endental experience that might not even exist.
elphinium One is scarce, Two and Three are quite
 re, Four is an amazing find, and Five and Six
 e only rumors. Hints of what Six might hold are
  sed largely on extrapolation from the little that
 known about the lower-numbered petals. The
 llowing facts are generally accepted. It is a group
 perience, but not all members of the tripping
 oup are rewarded equally. It is intensely surreal,
 t in a purposeful way, as are all of the Delphinium
 ries. It concludes the loosely-built narrative of a
 ugged-out version of a fairy tale princess and her
uest for enlightenment begun in Delphinium One,
 plete with strange omens and mythological crea-
 res. Rumors of what the ending might hold are
ore fanciful, and range from the trippers being
 sleeved in god-like infomorphs to them being
apped forever in an ego prison. Delphinium Six is
 mpletely virtual, leaving the characters comatose
 r the duration, and probably lasts a long time,
  rhaps 40 hours.                                  ■




   voluntarily; if they do not, the drug has no effect other
   than producing very low-intensity LSD-like visual hal-
   lucinations), taking control of the character's entoptic
   displays, linking to secretive mesh servers and other
   trippers, and invading the character's sensorium with
   AR “hallucinations.” Others put the character into a
   near-comatose state during which they go on a head
   trip. Normally there is some kind of well-developed
   theme or plot to a Petal experience, although in some
   cases they just experience a stream of images.
      Though most societies seek to suppress Petals, new
   ones appear constantly, fueled by a persistent sub-
   culture of crafters and users. Petalcrafters view their
   work as an art form (or at least as really good enter-
   tainment), and the better Petals are lovingly crafted,
   hauntingly beautiful experiences—even if they're also
   terrifying. The subculture of Petal use ranges from
   casual users who occasionally do an easy, short-du-
   ration flower to hardcore addicts who spend much of
