their time not on Petals trying to hunt down the most
intense and esoteric varieties. From this subculture
comes a lot of information on what various Petals
look like and their effects. Because Petals combine
custom nanobots with tailored chemical payloads and
sometimes connections to mesh servers, duplicating
them using fabricators is impossible, leading to an
active market of crafters, dealers, and traders.
   Petals sometimes contain easter eggs and rewards,
called “sweets” by petal users. Getting the sweets usu-
ally requires fulfilling certain conditions within the
trip, such as correctly answering questions or fulfilling
goals. Typical sweets include skillsofts, new clothing
or product designs, and custom infomorph sleeves.
   On the negative side, some Petal trips go bad, in-
flicting 1d10 mental stress or more on the user. Per-
haps worse, some Petals are loaded with malware that
takes over the user's mesh inserts and worse—some
sentinels even whisper of Petals carrying strains of the
Exsurgent virus. [Trivial to High]

NARCOALGORITHMS
Narcoalgorithms are software programs that simulate
the effects of drugs on biological bodies. Almost all
bio, chemical, and nano drugs can be replicated as
narcoalgorithms, with corresponding effect (game-
master discretion). Narcoalgorithms may be run by
infomorphs, egos encased in cyberbrains (pods and
synthmorphs), simulmorphs, and even AIs.
   DDR: Originally crafted by prankster hackers
and distributed as a virus, DDR (for “Dance Dance
Robot”) triggers impulses in the target's motor con-
trol circuits. Primary targeting robot AIs, the effect is
that targets “dance” in jerky, automated movements.
Pleasure receptors are also activated so that dancing—
and movement of any kind—feels good. Different
software variants invoke different motions and styles.
The target suffers a –20 modifier on other actions
while dancing, but the dancing may be overridden
with a WIL x 3 Test. [Low]
   Linkstate: This software actually connects the user
to a peer-to-peer network, where it randomly con-
nects to other linkstate users and samples a bit of their
XP feed and randomly accessed memories—typically
just enough to provide context, but not enough to
acquire private personal details. These inputs are
spliced together, their emotional inputs amplified, and
then the entire package is spiked with some hormonal
circuit triggers and artificial synaesthesia. The effect
is a mind-blowing mixed sampling of people's lives,
mashed together in a sensory soup, that hits the mind
with a euphoric rush. Linkstate users are catatonic
while under the effects (typical sessions run 3-4 hours),
but afterwards they often report that they have flash-
backs of events in other people's lives. [Low]

CHEMICALS
Atropine: Though poisonous in large doses, atropine
is an effective antidote against nerve agents like BTX2
and Nervex. Easily synthesized in a maker, atropine
will avert the effect whether taken soon before or after
dosage by a nerve agent. [Trivial]
   DMSO: This chemical acts as a carrier, allow-
ing other chemicals to be absorbed through the
skin. It allows any chemical agent to be applied
dermally. [Trivial]
   Liquid Thermite: Similar to scrapper's gel, liquid
thermite comes in a gel form that is easily applied
under all environmental conditions (by the nature
of its chemical reaction, thermite is oxygenated and
will burn underwater or in space). It is ignited with
an electric charge, burning at temperatures exceeding
2,500 degrees Celsius and melting through whatever
it is touching. Liquid thermite inflicts 3d10 + 5 DV per
Action turn to whatever it is touching. Armor will also
be burnt through, offering no protection once the full
Armor rating has been reached. [Moderate]
   NotWater: NotWater is an effective liquid fire re-
tardant that does not get objects wet, no matter how
absorbent they are—it simply beads up and slides
right off. [Trivial]
    Scrapper's Gel: This goo turns into a potent acid
when given an electrical charge. It comes in a gel-like
state and may be smeared like jelly, and may even be
used in space. In acid form, scrapper's gel does 1d10
+ 5 DV per Action Turn to anything it touches, unless
the material has been treated against acid. Armor will
protect against this acid at first, but the acid will eat
through the armor, so that it will no longer protect
after its full armor value has been reached. [Low]
    Slip: This liquid is almost entirely frictionless. When
spread around an area (commonly used in splash
grenades), anyone attempting to walk or run on the
affected surface must make a COO Test or fall down.
Likewise, any coated surface becomes extremely
hard to grip onto, requiring a SOM Test to hang on.
Anyone attempting to grapple a slip-soaked character
suffers a –30 modifier. [Low]
   Tracker Dye: This liquid is colorless at normal light
but becomes recognizable under pre-specified different
wavelengths (such as infrared or ultraviolet). [Trivial]

TOXINS
Chemical warfare involves using the toxic properties
of biological and chemical substances to kill, injure,
or incapacitate an enemy. Note that an antidote can
be constructed for most toxins if a sample is acquired
and an appropriate Medicine or Academics Test is
made. This is considered a Task Action with a time-
frame of 1 hour. These toxins only affect biomorphs;
synthmorphs are immune.
   BTX : BTX-squared (also called Frog Bite) is a
genetically-enhanced variant of the extremely potent
cardiotoxic and neurotoxic batrachotoxin. It leads to
fast paralysis and cardiac arrest that usually kills the
target within a few Action Turns. Affected characters
suffer 2d10 + 10 damage a turn for 3 Action Turns;
medichines reduce this damage by half. They must
also make a SOM x 2 Test (+30 with medichines) or
be paralyzed for 1 hour. [High]
