   CR Gas: This potent incapacitating agent causes
eye twitching and temporary blindness, severe cough-
ing and breathing difficulty, skin irritation, and panic.
Affected characters suffer 1d10 ÷ 2 damage, a –30
modifier to sight-based Perception Tests, and a –20
modifier to all other actions for 20 minutes (5 min-
utes if the character has medichines). [Low]
   Flight: This drug is derived from human pheromones
released due to fear, and is intended to instill alarm or
even terror in the character. Affected characters must
make a WIL x 3 Test (+30 with medichines) or suffer
a panic attack, inflicting 1d10 stress. Dosed characters
also suffer a –30 modifier for resisting intimidation or
fear-based emotional manipulations. Flight affects last
for 1 hour (5 minutes with medichines). [Low]
   Nervex: Derived from deadly nerve agents like cy-
closarin, VX, and novichok, this genetically-modified
toxin is deployed as a colorless, odorless gas that
turns safely inert 10 minutes after deployment. It
causes involuntary contraction of the muscles, sei-
zures, and death by respiratory failure. One minute
after exposure, the character must make a SOM Test
or be incapacitated by seizures, paralysis, or nausea
and vomiting; unaffected characters still suffer a –20
modifier to all actions. After 10 minutes, the character
will die unless an antidote (such as atropine, p. 323) is
applied. Characters with medichines suffer the initial
effects, but recover after 5 minutes. [High]
   Oxytocin-A: A genetically-improved variant of oxy-
tocin, this drug induces trust in the recipient. Drugged
characters suffer a –30 modifier on all WIL and Kine-
sics Tests where trust is a factor. Medichines provide
immunity. [Low]
  Twitch: Twitch is a convulsive agent, a nonlethal
nerve gas. Affected characters must succeed in a SOM
Test (+30 with medichines) or become incapacitated
with severe muscle tremors. Unaffected characters still
suffer a –20 on all actions. The effects of Twitch last for
10 minutes, 5 if the character has medichines. [Low]

NANOTOXINS
Disruption: This nanotoxin attacks the myelin sheath
on nerves, disrupting nerve impulses and inflicting
symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Every hour the morph
suffers a –5 modifier to COO, REF, and COG. If any
aptitudes are reduced to zero,the morph is effectively
paralyzed and catatonic. [Moderate]
   Necrosis: Necrosis nanobots attack the walls of cells
inside the body, killing tissue. This nanotoxin inflicts
1d10 ÷ 2 damage per Action Turn for one minute, after
which the nanobots disable and flush from the body.
Necrosis only affects biomorphs. [Moderate]
   Neuropath: These nanobots are designed to stimu-
late the pain receptors of a morph on a systemic level
to cause agony and impairment. While most neuro-
paths target biological receptors, variants are avail-
able that induce comparable (phantom) pain stimula-
tions in the cyberbrains of synthmorphs to create an
equivalent effect. The affected character must succeed
in a WIL x 3 Test or become incapacitated. Even if
they succeed, they suffer –30 from the inflicted agony.
Any form of pain resistance that allows a character
to ignore wound modifiers will negate the neuropath
pain modifier by an appropriate amount. [Moderate]
   Nutcracker: Nutcrackers are nanobots designed to
locate, migrate, and decompose the synthdiamond
case of a cortical stack within a morph by attacking
its crystal lattice. This process takes approximately
6 hours, after which the cortical stack is destroyed.
These nanobots also attack the cortical stack's connec-
tions to the (cyber)brain and brain-mapping nanobots.
After 1 hour, the victim will be aware that their corti-
cal stack is threatened. After 3 hours, all connections
will be severed and the cortical stack will no longer be
able to back up the character. [High]

PATHOGENS
A pathogen is an infectious biological agent that
causes disease or illness to its host. While natural
pathogens rarely strive to kill their hosts, germ war-
fare programs revived during the Fall—or instigated
by the TITANs—sought to modify and use pathogens
as a weapon of war. The ideal characteristics of lethal
biological agents are high infectivity, high potency,
availability of vaccines, and delivery as an aerosol.
Most biomorphs are immune to standard pathogens
thanks to their basic bio-mods, and medichines will
protect against most others. However, even these
defenses may not protect against diseases left by
the TITANs or a new terrorist cell's biowar bug. It
is largely recommended that pathogens be handled
as a plot device, rather than an active threat to the
characters. Pathogens have no effect on synthmorphs.
   Degen: Characters exposed to this degenerative
neurological disease must make a DUR x 2 Test or
become infected. Medichines will defeat the disease,
but others will not show signs of infection for 1 week,
when the symptoms of a rapidly progressing dementia
will become clear: memory loss, personality changes,
and hallucinations. If untreated, Degen will progress
for another week with more serious symptoms, in-
cluding speech impediments, jerky movements, loss
of balance and coordination, and even seizures. This
is reflected by a 5 point loss in all aptitudes per day
(after the first week). When any aptitude reaches 0,
the character dies. Degen is notorious for its effect
in corrupting cortical stack backups before infection
symptoms manifest. [Expensive]
   Trigger: Trigger is a designer virus that selectively
targets and infects mast cells to trigger a hyper-allergic
reaction. The resulting anaphylactic shock due to sys-
temic vasodilatation (associated with a sudden drop
in blood pressure) and bronchial swelling (resulting in
constriction and difficulty breathing) usually leads to
death in a matter of minutes after onset, if not treated.
Infected characters must succeed in a DUR Test (using
their current Durability score minus damage) or die
quickly. Even medichines have difficulty reacting in
time against this virus; characters with medichines
must make a DUR x 2 Test to survive. [Expensive]
