PSI DRUGS
Research into the Watts-MacLeod strain has resulted in
several exceptional breakthroughs involving the creation
of psi-impacting drugs. Each of these drugs is in the ex-
perimental stage, but they are already finding some use
among Firewall and similar secretive groupings.
   Inhibitor: Inhibitor is a cocktail of neurochemicals
that block some brain receptor and transmitter func-
tions in an attempt to reduce psi-waves and block or
impair sleights. This drug is commonly used to restrain
async prisoners from using their abilities. A drugged
character must make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they
lose all psi abilities for the drug's duration. If they suc-
ceed, they suffer a –30 impairment on Psi skills and
all strain is doubled. Inhibitor has an unfortunate side
effect of doping the character down, however; apply
a –10 modifier to their COG. Inhibitor-influenced
characters tend to have a glazed, dopey expression and
have difficulty getting excited or emotional. [High]
   Psi-Opener: Psi-opener drugs are variants of the
Watts-MacLeod strain with a temporary effect and
which do not permanently alter the user's brain. Psi-
opener temporarily imbues the user with the ability
to use one particular sleight, regardless of whether or
not they have the Psi trait. Each type of Psi-opener is
customized for a particular sleight. While primarily
intended for non-asyncs, non-asyncs may not possess
Psi skills, so they must default to WIL. For this reason,
Psi-Opener is often doubled up with Psike-out.
   Using Psi-opener is a mind-wrenching experience.
Users are occasionally subject to hallucinations
(gamemaster discretion). When the drug wears off, it
inflicts 1d10 points of mental stress, +2 if the drug
imbues a psi-gamma sleight. [Expensive]
   Psike-Out: Psike-out bolsters an async's psi abilities.
Apply a +20 modifier to the async's Psi skill tests for the
drug's duration. However, also apply +2 to all strain
DVs for the drug's duration. Psike-out is mentally ad-
dictive, with an Addiction Modifier of –10. [Expensive]



EVERYDAY TECHNOLOGY
The following devices are all exceptionally common
and can be acquired in almost any habitat. Almost
everyone in Eclipse Phase either owns these devices or
knows several people who do.
   Ecto: Ectos are the external version of basic mesh
inserts (p. 300), minus the medical sensors. These col-
orful devices serve as a wearable mesh terminal, PDA,
locator, and camera-phone. The devices are flexible
(often worn as bracelets), dirt-resistant, self-cleaning,
and may be stretched out to increase screen size. They
may project holographic displays and are typically
equipped with wireless-enabled glasses or contact
lenses and decorative earpieces or earrings so that the
user may access augmented reality. Given the ubiquity
of mesh inserts, ectos are growing less common, but
they are still used by bioconservatives, others without
implants, and those who prefer to access the mesh via
an external device for security concerns. [Low]
                               TOXINS
                     TYPE APPLICATION ONSET TIME
Chemical Toxins
BTX2                 Chem       D, Inj, O      1 Action Turn    3
CR Gas               Chem        D, Inh        1 Action Turn
Flight                Bio          Inh         3 Action Turns
Nervex               Chem     D, Inh, Inj, O     1 minute
Oxytocin-A            Bio        Inh, Inj        3 minutes
Twitch               Chem     D, Inh, Inj, O 3 Action Turns
Nanotoxins
Degeneration         Nano        Inj, O         Immediate
Necrosis             Nano        Inj, O        3 Action Turns
Neuropath            Nano       D, Inj, O      3 Action Turns
Nutcracker           Nano        Inj, O         Immediate
Psi Drugs
Inhibitor            Chem        Inj, O        3 Action Turns
Psi-Opener            Bio        Inj, O         20 minutes
Psike-Out            Chem        Inj, O          1 minute


   Holographic Projectors: These devices are capable
of projecting high-definition, ultra-realistic three-
dimensional images and movies. From a distance
(20+ meters), such holograms can be difficult to
distinguish as fake, but up close they are easier to
see for what they are (+20 Perception Test modifier).
Holograms do not appear wavelengths other than
visual light, and so are easily identified by anyone
with enhanced vision. [Low]
  Micrograv Shoes: These shoes are equipped with
velcro and/or a magnetic system, allowing the wearer
to walk normally on appropriate surfaces in micro-
grav and zero-G environments, rather than floating or
bouncing. [Trivial]
   Portable Sensor: This is a small portable (possibly
even wearable) sensor system. The type of sensor must
be chosen (for example: infrared, lidar, radar, x-ray).
Combined sensor systems are also available, at a cu-
mulative cost. See Radio and Sensor Ranges, p. 299.
and Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Moderate]
   Smart Clothing: Smart clothing can change its
color, texture, and even its cut, taking only a minute
or two to transform from a solid color jumpsuit to a
plaid party dress or a replica of a pinstriped, late 20th
century business suit. More advanced (and expensive)
models can also attempt to camouflage their wearers,
providing a +20 bonus to Infiltration Tests to avoid
being seen or noticed, as long as the wearer is station-
ary or not moving faster than a slow walk. When worn
by someone moving faster, the clothing still provides a
+10 modifier. Smart clothing also keeps the character
warm or cool, allowing the character to exist comfort-
ably in environments from –40 to 70 C. [Low]
   Smart Vac Clothing: Just like regular smart cloth-
ing, this outfit can also transform into a light vacsuit
(p. 333). It also functions as armor with a rating of
2/4. [Moderate]
