   Specs: Specs are vision-enhancing glasses. They
deliver sensory data directly into the wearer's visual
cortex by connecting with their basic mesh inserts
(p. 300), though visual displays are available for bio-
conservatives and other characters without implants.
Specs extend the range of the wearer's vision from
terahertz waves to gamma rays (p. 302). Specs in-
clude a t-ray emitter (p. 306), however, using x-rays,
or gamma rays for visual purposes requires a sepa-
rate emitter, since neither of these sorts of radiation
are common inside habitats, or in any safe environ-
ments. Specs have a variable focus equivalent to 5
power magnifiers and provide the wearer with a +10
bonus to all Perception Tests involving vision. [Low]
   Tools: Tools come in kits (portable), shops (can fit
into a large vehicle), and facilities (large, non-mobile).
Each set of tools applies to a particular skill, such
as Hardware: Electronics or Hardware: Groundraft.
[Low (Kit), High (Shop), Expensive (Facility)]
   Utilitool: This hand tool includes a specialized
small nanobot generator. In its basic form, a utilitool
is the size and shape of a large fountain pen. It can
transform into almost any tool, however, from a
wrench, knife, or powered screwdriver to a rotary
grinder or pair of pliers. Some inexpensive utilitools
are optimized for specialized tasks, like cooking
or wilderness survival, but more expensive models
become almost any imaginable hand tool. Utilitools
are normally mentally controlled using the character's
basic mesh inserts. Characters without such implants
can control the tool via voice commands and touch
controls. Characters using a utilitool gain a +10
modifier to skills involving repairing or modifying de-
vices with mechanical parts, opening locks, disarming
alarm systems, or performing first aid. [Low]
   Viewers: These small and highly advanced binoculars
possess all the visual enhancement of specs (p. 325), but
also provide 50x magnification. They also include a di-
rectional microphone that magnifies sound from the di-
rection the viewers are pointed by a factor of 50. View-
ers provide the user with a +30 bonus to all Perception
Tests involving vision or hearing for the target they are
aimed at. This bonus is not cumulative with bonuses
from any other device or augmentation. [Low]



NANOTECHNOLOGY
Nanotechnology is the precise manipulation of matter
at the atomic level, typically using millions of micro-
scale nanomachines. Nanotechnology transformed
manufacturing, enabling new techniques and materi-
als. The advent of nanofabrication—building objects
from the molecular level up—transformed economies,
allowing people to simply manufacture whatever they
needed from raw materials. Nanotechnology is still a
growing field, however, and has its limitations. While
the TITANs unleashed self-replicating nanoswarms
with the ability to transform or destroy anything
through the power of geometric growth, such technol-
ogy remains far beyond transhumanity's grasp.

BASIC NANOTECHNOLOGY
Basic nanotechnology is exceedingly widespread
and used throughout the solar system, serving as the
primary method of manufacturing for decades. The
nanobots of basic nanotech are confined to delicate
and specially-maintained environments like the
insides of cornucopia machines or healing vats and
cannot operate elsewhere.

HEALING VATS
Healing vats were the first type of nanotech medicine
developed and remain the most powerful medical
devices in common use. With the exception of a few
exceptionally deadly nanoplagues, a healing vat can
cure any disease and heal any injury. As long as the
patient is alive when they are place in the healing
vat, they will not only survive, but emerge without a
scratch. A healing vat can even take a severed head (as
long as it has been stabilized by medichines or nano-
tech first aid) and regrow an entire body based on the
head's genetics. If the patient's body or medical records
