                                                   HEALING
INJURY

Healing normal damage to a character who has taken 3 or fewer

Restoring major lost body parts like arms or legs, or healing dying
who has taken 4 wounds.
Restoring recently dead character who was placed in medical stas
who is mostly intact.
Restoring recently dead character who is placed in medical stasis
and who is missing most of their body.
Augmentation
Minor implants and bioware, minor cosmetic changes like alterati
color or shape, or hair color, texture or distribution, minor alterati
body fat distribution.
Major brain and neural implants, nanoware or bioware, sex chang
no more than 5% or weight by no more than 20%.
Major physical modifications like adding limbs or radical changes



 contain information about their implants, bioware, or
 advanced nanotechnology, all of these modifications
 are also fully restored.
    Few people suffer injuries serious enough to require
 a healing vat. Most are used as a safe and easy way
 to perform bodysculpting or to install implants or
 bioware. Healing vats use specialized nanomachines
 to either alter the patient's body or integrate implants
 or bioware. One advantage of using a healing vat is
 that no additional healing time is needed, the patient
 leaves the vat fully recovered from the augmentation
 and ready to go. Every hospital, clinic, bodyshop, and
 augmentation parlor has several healing vats. The
 time required by a healing vat varies with the sever-
 ity of the damage it is healing or the extent of the
 modification being made, as noted on the Healing Vat
 table, p. 327. [High]

 NANODETECTORS
 Nanodetectors are small devices that suck in air and
 micro debris in order to scan for and detect nano-
 bots. Given that nanobots are so small, the density of
 nanobots in the area has a large impact on its success.
 The nanodetector has a base skill of 30 for detecting
 nanobots, modified by +30 if an active nanoswarm or
 hive is present, +0 if a nanoswarm or hive was active
 recently, and –10 for the presence of nanobots outside
 of a swarm or hive. Once a nanobot is detected it may
 be analyzed either by the user or the nanodetector's AI,
 using Academics: Nanotechnology 30 skill. Nanode-
 tectors are often worn and left on, set to alert the user
 if a hostile nanoswarm is detected. [Low]

 NANOFABRICATORS
 Nanofabrication machines are universal assemblers
 that perform almost all of the manufacturing in the
 solar system. The user loads in raw materials and
 electronic plans and it can produce literally any
AT TABLE
                                HEALING TIME
                               2 hours per wound
nds.
                           (min. 1 hour for 0 wounds)
early dead character
                              12 hours per wound

 avoid death, but
                                1 day per wound

void death,
                               3 days per wound


n skin color, eye
o face shape or                     1 hour

hanging height by
                                    12 hours

eight and weight.                   3 days



   manufactured good, from a weapon to an ultralight
   plane to a hot and delicious dinner. Many nanofabri-
   cators come equipped with a library of common-use
   blueprints (basic foods, standard clothing, common
   tools, etc.). Other blueprints must either be purchased
   online, self-programmed, or acquired through some
   other method (see Nanofabrication, p. 284). The larg-
   est nanofabrication units are more than 10 meters on
   a side and are used to produce small consumer goods
   in bulk as well as building large devices like orbital
   transfer vehicles.
      The availability and legality of nanofabricators
   varies widely throughout the system. In the inner
   system and Jovian Republic, cornucopia machines
   are commonly restricted and sometimes illegal, with
   licenses only available to hypercorps, military units,
   and other officials and elites. In these habitats, only
   more limited fabbers are available to the general
   populace. Additionally, blueprints are licensed and
   protected by copyright laws, and many nanofabrica-
   tors feature pre-programmed restrictions that prevent
   them from using unlicensed blueprints as well as
   from manufacturing weapons, explosives, or other
   restricted items. Among the autonomists of the outer
   system, however, nanofabricators are commonly ac-
   cessible, shared by everyone, and unrestricted.
      For rules on creating goods in a nanofabricator, see
   Nanofabrication, p. 284.
      Desktop Cornucopia Machine: Cornucopia ma-
   chines (CMs) are general-purpose nanofabricators.
   The smallest CMs are desk-sized cubes approximately
   half a meter on a side with a volume of at least 40
   liters. They can produce any small object, from tools
   to well-folded suits of clothing to handguns or a bowl
   of cereal. It is sometimes possible to assemble larger
   items, but they must be manufactured in smaller
   pieces and then assembled (likely requiring an appro-
   priate Hardware Test).
