  While users can purchase bulk raw materials, CMs
also come equipped with a disassembler. The user
loads garbage and other objects into the disassembler
so that they can be turned into raw materials for the
CM. All legally-available disassemblers only decon-
struct non-living material. [Expensive]
   Fabber: Fabbers are specialized nanofabricators,
portable and considerably smaller than CMs. There
are a wide variety of portable fabbers, including
ones that can make any hand tool or small piece of
personal electronics, ones that can turn any organic
material into food and drink, and ones that can create
any drug or medicine as well as bandages and spe-
cialized dressings. The most common fabbers have a
volume of 4 liters. Larger hand tools and devices are
produced as 2 or 3 separate parts that must be fitted
together. Like CMs, fabbers also contain miniature
disposal units. [Moderate]
   Maker: Makers are specially-designed to produce
food and drink for the user. Raw materials can be pro-
vided by the addition of any water-containing liquid
and collected biomass like leftover food, grass, dirt,
dead animals, or transhuman waste. Some models are
built into standard vacsuits. Makers can produce water
and various flavored beverages, as well as ration bars
or thick pudding-like edible gels. With adequate raw
material, a maker can indefinitely provide food and
drink for up to three transhumans. Most units, how-
ever, have a very limited range of flavors and textures
that are widely considered to be fairly bad. Models
with a wider and better range of flavors and textures
are more expensive, but produce food that is consid-
ered adequate or occasionally good. [Low to Moderate]
   Blueprints: If you want a nanofabricator to make
something, you need to instruct the device how to
create it from the molecular level up. Such blueprints
are available for almost every conceivable item out
there. The cost of such blueprints typically equals
the cost of purchasing the item, though factors like
legality and quality may affect the cost as usual (see
Acquiring Gear, p. 296). [One Cost Category Higher
Than Item Cost]

ADVANCED NANOTECHNOLOGY
Advanced nanotechnology includes more recent
developments. Like basic nanotech, advanced nano-
technology cannot self-replicate but the nanobots
can function normally in most environments and are
highly resistant to bacterial attacks and other environ-
mental problems. Typical advanced nanotech consists
of a generator—known as a “hive”—that produces
nanobots as long as it is supplied with raw materials.
Every such hive also includes a miniature disassembly
unit and/or specialized nanomachines that collect
raw materials for the generator. These hives produce
nanobot swarms that are set loose to perform some
function in the world.
  Examples of advanced nanotech include COTs (p.
315), medichines (p. 308), smart dust (p. 316), and
utilitools (p. 326), among others.
   General Hive: General hives are capable of produc-
ing any conceivable type of nanobot with the right
blueprints and/or programming. Even at their smallest
size they are not really portable, with a minimum size
being cubes 30 centimeters on a side and a volume of
25 liters. [Expensive]
   Specialized Hive: Specialized hives are far more
common than general hives, though they can produce
only one type of nanomachines (i.e., choose one type
of nanoswarm per hive). The smallest specialized
hives are approximately the size of a 12-gauge shot-
gun shell or a large cherry tomato. [High]

EGO BRIDGES
Ego bridges are vat devices used for uploading and
downloading minds. See Backups and Uploading, p.
268, and Resleeving, p. 271. [Expensive]

NANOSWARMS AND MICROSWARMS
Swarms are colonies of nanobots or larger microbots
created in a hive, programmed with specific instruc-
tions, and then set free to perform a set task. Each
swarm is composed of hundreds or thousands of
nanobots or microbots, ranging in size from a mi-
crobe to a small insect. Nanobots are typically invis-
ible to the naked eye, though they can be detected
with a nanodetector (p. 326) or nanoscopic vision (p.
311). Microbots are more noticeable but still quite
small, usually the size of a grain of sand or a dust
mote, or occasionally as big as a flea. Individual bots
in a swarm are directed by nanocomputers, with be-
havioral routines modeled on biological insect and
animal swarms. These swarms stick together and
work as a whole, communicating with nanoradios,
nanolasers, or chemical cues, and sharing informa-
tion between each bot in the swarm. Note that nano-
swarms don't invade inside living bodies (though they
may attack externally)—internal nano is handled by
nanoware (p. 308), nanodrugs (p. 321), and nanotox-
ins (p. 324).
   Nanobots and microbots may be designed with
all manner of miniaturized propulsion systems (see
Mobility Systems, p. 310), with the exception of ionic
drives. They are powered by tiny batteries or solar
cells. Their tiny sensors are very effective at allow-
ing them to identify materials and objects, and so to
target discriminatingly. Nanobots or microbots could,
for example, be programmed to ignore metal objects,
certain types of plants, specific morphs, females, or
specific individuals. Swarms may either be released
directly from a hive or from pre-packaged program-
mable canisters.
   Swarms must be programmed before they are re-
leased. The programming first determines how long
the swarm is active. This timeframe is open-ended,
though most swarms deteriorate into ineffectiveness
after 2 weeks unless they are replenished by a hive.
The programming then sets what area the swarm is
to occupy. This is also open to interpretation and
can vary from “coat this person” to “spread out to a
