diameter of 20 meters” to “find the nearest chemical
traces and track them to their source.” Finally, pro-
gramming sets any other parameters for the swarm's
mission—for example, if it should ignore certain ma-
terials, if it should send a report at a predetermined
time, or if it should self-destruct into harmless dust
when it has completed a certain task.
   Programming is generally handled as a Simple
Success Test using Programming (Nanoswarm) skill.
Failure simply infers that the programming is imper-
fect, and so the swarm may not operate completely as
planned. An actual Programming (Nanoswarm) Suc-
cess Test is only called for if the swarm's programming
is substantially complex or if the character seeks to
have the swarm act outside of its usual set functions.
The bots in each swarm are specially equipped for the
task they are designed for, however, so attempting
to drastically repurpose a swarm may be difficult or
pointless at the gamemaster's discretion.
   Swarms may also be teleoperated, controlled, and/
or (re)programmed once they are released, via radio
or laser link.
   Swarms are treated as a whole. The standard swarm
size is enough to cover a 10 x 10 x 10 meter cube,
and this is the standard “unit” of swarm released by
a canister or hive. Swarms may be larger, but they are
treated as individual swarm units. Each swarm has
a Durability of 50 and is immune to wounds. Most
attacks against a swarm simply inflict 1 point of
damage. Area-effect weapons, plasma rifles, and fire
inflict 1d10 damage, plasma grenades do full damage.
Swarms are not affected by vacuum.
   Cleaners: This nanoswarm cleans, polishes, and
removes dirt and stains. It may be used on an area,
specific objects, or people. Some facilities employ
permanent cleaner swarms to keep their area spotless.
Cleaners may also be programmed to remove specific
toxins, chemicals, or other hazardous substances in
order to decontaminate an area. Covert operatives
and criminals sometimes use cleaners to eliminate
any evidence they may have left at a scene usable for
forensics purposes, such as blood, hair, or anything
that could be DNA-typed. [Low]
   Disassemblers: Also known as smart corrosives,
these nanobots break down any matter. Their ad-
vantage over common acids is that not only are
they able to break down any material by using
energy to disrupt chemical bonds, but that they
can be programmed to take apart certain compo-
nents while ignoring others, leaving them intact.
Disassemblers are a common weapon used against
synthmorphs, eating away their components with-
out having to worry about accidentally splashing
biomorphs. Upon contact, these nanobots infl ict
1d10 ÷ 2 damage (round up) per Action Turn. Ac-
cumulated damage counts as a wound when the
Wound Threshold is reached. Both Energy and Ki-
netic armor protect against this damage, but these
armors are eaten away as well, so the Armor Value
is reduced by the soaked DV. [High]
   Engineers: Engineer microswarms are used for
various construction purposes: erecting walls, digging
tunnels, sealing holes, reinforcing foundations, and so
on. [Moderate]
   Fixers: This is the nanoswarm version of repair
spray (p. 333). [Moderate]
   Injectors: Injector microswarms are equipped with
tiny needles and a drug payload. A biological target
affected by an injector swarm suffers 1 point of
damage and the effects of the carried drug, chemical,
or toxin. [Moderate]
   Gardeners: This microswarm is useful for a number
of agricultural purposes: killing weeds, planting seeds,
trimming plants, pollinating, and even harvesting
small items. It may also be programmed to simply
defoliate an area. [Moderate]
   Guardians: Guardians watch for and attack other
unauthorized swarms. Guardians inflict 1d10 ÷ 2
damage (round up) on other swarms they come into
contact with per Action Turn. [Moderate]
   Proteans: This nanoswarm is designed to disassem-
ble other materials and objects and to create a single
specific, pre-programmed device from the components
(much like a specialized nanofabricator). The proteans
must be able to scavenge appropriate raw materials
(for example, to create a metallic device the nanobots
must transform something else made of metal). The
construction time takes 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for a Trivial cost item, 2 hours for
Low, etc.). [High]
   Saboteurs: Sab nanobots are designed to infiltrate
electronics or machinery and sabotage them in small
but difficult to discern ways: severing connections,
disabling components, gumming up moving parts,
etc. Saboteurs inflict damage on devices similar to
disassemblers, but the target is not destroyed and
such damage is not immediately obvious. They inflict
1d10 ÷ 2 points of damage to synthmorphs, bots, and
other devices every Action Turn. Armor has no effect,
but accumulated damage counts as a wound when the
Wound Threshold is reached. [High]
   Scouts: A scout nanoswarm will system-
atically map and explore an area, collecting
samples of all materials and substances it
encounters. The samples are carried back
to the hive or canister and chemically ana-
lyzed. Scouts can also be used for forensic
purposes, collecting DNA samples, analyz-
ing chemical residues, and examining other
evidence. [High]
   Taggants: Taggants seek to lodge themselves
onto everything in their area of dispersal.
Each carries a unique identifier, so that if it is
found later, the tagged person or object can
be linked back to the point they were tagged.
Taggants can be programmed to remain silent,
only responding to query broadcasts made
with the proper crypto codes, or they can be
programmed to broadcast their location back
to the deployer via the mesh. [Low]
