                                                          P
CREATURE       COG COO INT REF SAV SOM WIL INIT SPD D
Fur Coat        1   1    1    5    1   5    1    12   1     1

Smart Dog       5   10   15   15   5   15   10   60   1     2


Smart Monkey    5   15   15   15   5   10   10   60   1     2


Smart Rat       5   15   15   15   5   5    10   60   2

Space Roach     1   10   10   15   5   5    5    50   1



 PETS
 These partially-uplifted and bio-engineered animals
 have rudimentary intelligence and limited communica-
 tion skills. They make for fine companions and helpers.
    Fur Coat: A so-called “fur coat” is outerwear made
 from a living primitive organism. The creature's skin,
 fur, or scales are real. The organism is cultivated from
 transgenic stocks and grown around molds into cloth-
 ing shapes, often with actual usefulness: polar bear
 parkas, seal diving suits, porcupine coats, etc. Fur
 coats are modified with wireless controls and haptic
 systems, so they can be made to move, shiver, massage,
 or prickle up on command. [Low]
    Smart Dogs: Commonly used as discriminatory
 guardians, smart dogs are sometimes enhanced with
 combative bioware or cybernetics. [Moderate]
    Smart Monkey: Commonly used by criminal groups
 for minor larceny such as pickpocketing, smart mon-
 keys can be useful and intelligent aides. [Moderate]
    Smart Rats: These upgrades of the common Norwe-
 gian rat are clever and dexterous, and they easily fit
 into a pocket or hood. [Low]
    Space Roach: Grown to the size of a small dog,
 these insects are often biosculpted for bright colors
 and patterns. They are useful for minor janitorial
 duties. [Low]

 SCAVENGER TECH
 This technology is often employed by gatecrashers,
 space scavengers, and Firewall teams during missions.
    Disassembly Tools: These tools are useful for sal-
 vage ops, breaking down wrecks, or dissembling any-
 thing from a habitat room to a vehicle or synthmorph.
 They include plasma torches, laser cutters, pneumatic
 jaws, and smart tools like spanners and wrenches that
 can be adopted to a wide array of connections and
 fittings. [High]
    Mobile Lab: The mobile lab is a handheld device
 that contains all different types of sensors to investi-
 gate organic and inorganic liquid, gaseous, and solid
 components (from soil to tissue samples) and compo-
 sitions. It performs material analysis using different
 methods of spectrometry and biochemical testing,
 comparing results to a built-in database of element
S
WT LUC TT SKILLS
3     2    1 —
               Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Intimidation 30, Percep-
5     20   4
               tion 30, Scrounging 30, Unarmed Combat 40
             Climbing 50, Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Infiltra-
4     20   4 tion 30, Perception 30, Scrounging 30, Unarmed
             Combat 30
               Climbing 40, Fray 40, Freerunning 30, Infiltration
1     20   4
               50, Perception 20, Scrounging 50
               Fray 30, Free Fall 30, Infiltration 50, Perception 20,
1     10   2
               Scrounging 50


    and compound spectra. Its built in AI comes equipped
    with Academic: Chemistry 30. [Moderate]
       Specimen Container: This capsule container is
    designed to hold samples of any sort (chemical, bio-
    logical, etc.) in near stasis. It can be programmed to
    reproduce whatever conditions the user specifies, from
    cryogenic freezing to extreme heat, or even vacuum or
    high-pressure atmosphere. [Low]
       Superthermite Charges: These powerful and highly
    stable demolition charges are made from a combina-
    tion of nanometals and metal oxides. A single charge
    can be used to create an explosive blast inflicting
    2d10+5 damage. This charge can be shaped with a
    successful Demolitions Test, focusing the blast in a
    particular 90-degree direction (for example, to blow
    through a door). This triples the damage of the blast
    in the focused direction; in all other directions, the
    damage is reduced to 1/3rd (round down). Multiple
    charges apply a cumulative effect. [Moderate]

    SERVICES
    Anonymous Accounts: These accounts are crucial
    for anyone who wants to be discreet with their
    online transactions. See Anonymous Account Ser-
    vices, p. 252. [Moderate]
       Backup: A single, one-time backup without insur-
    ance is sometimes all the poor can afford, hoping
    that they can buy backup insurance later or that
    someone that cared about them will see to a re-
    sleeving. [Moderate]
       Backup Insurance: In the event of verifiable
    death, or after a set period of being missing, backup
    insurance will arrange for your cortical stack to be
    retrieved and your ego downloaded into another
    morph. If the cortical stack cannot be retrieved, your
    most recent backup is used. Most policies require
    that the holder provide a backup to be uploaded
    into secure storage at least twice a year. This industry
    works in a manner similar to insurance underwriting
    in terms of cost and individuals engaged in high risk
    professions can expect to pay a premium for the ser-
    vice. Additionally, attempts to retrieve a cortical stack
    are minimal unless one wants to pay for some extra
    effort (a thriving industry of paramilitary ego-repo
