  Kaos AI: Kaos AIs are used by hackers and covert
ops teams to create distractions and sabotage systems.
REF 20. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 40, Infosec 40,
Interface 40, Professional: Security System 80, Pro-
gramming 40, Research 20, Perception 30 plus one
weapon skill at 40. [Expensive]
   Security AI: Security AIs provide overwatch for
electronic systems. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 30,
Infosec 40, Interface 40, Professional: Security Sys-
tems 80, Programming 40, Research 20, Perception
30, plus one weapon skill at 40. [High]
   Standard Muse: Muses are digital entities that have
been designed as personal assistants and lifelong com-
panions for transhumans (see AIs and Muses, p. 264).
INT 20. Skills: Academics: Psychology 60, Hardware:
Electronics 30, Infosec 30, Interface 40, Professional:
Accounting 60, Programming 20, Research 30, Per-
ception 30, plus three other Knowledge skills at 40.
[High]

SCORCHERS
Scorchers are damaging neurofeedback programs used
to torment hacked cyberbrains (p. 261).
   Bedlam: Bedlam programs assault the ego with
traumatic mental input, inflicting mental stress.
Victims are overwhelmed with horrific, monstrous,
sanity-ripping sensory and emotional input. Each
attack inflicts 1d10 SV. [High]
   Cauterizer: This scorch program rips into the ego
with destructive neurofeedback routines. Each attack
with a cauterizer inflicts 1d10 + 5 DV on the target
ego. This damage is reflected as digitized neurologi-
cal damage. [High]
   Nightmare: Nightmare programs trigger anxiety
and panic attacks within the victim by stimulating the
neural circuitry representing the amygdala and hip-
pocampus. The target ego must make a WIL x 2 Test.
If they succeed, they are shaken but otherwise unaf-
fected, suffering a –10 modifier to all actions until the
end of the next Action Turn. If they fail, they suffers
1d10 ÷ 2 stress damage and are overcome with panic.
This causes them either to blindly flee, have a nervous
breakdown, or cower in frozen shock (gamemaster's
discretion). This panic episode lasts for 1 Action Turn
per 10 points of MoF. [High]
   Shutter: Shutters target the victim's sensory cortices,
inflicting a –30 modifier to one chosen sense. Double
this modifier if the attacking hacker scored an Excel-
lent Success. This modifier reduces at the rate of 10
points per Action Turn. [High]
   Spasm: Spasm programs are design to incapacitate
the ego with excruciating pain. Affected targets must
immediately make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they
immediately convulse, are disabled, and writhe in
agony for 1 Action Turns per 10 full points of MoF.
If they succeed, they still suffer a –30 modifier to all
actions, which reduces at the rate of 10 points per
Action Turn. Due to the nature of the delivery, pain
tolerance of any sort has no effect. [High]
SKILLSOFTS
Skillsofts are used with skillware implants (p. 309).
  Standard Skillsoft: These programs provide the
character with a rating of up to 40 in a single Active
skill. [High]

SURVIVAL GEAR
The following gear is often critical to the survival of
 soldiers, spies, criminals, gatecrashers, emergency ser-
 vice personnel, and others who regularly venture into
 unsafe or unfamiliar regions.
    Breadcrumb Positioning System: This worn device
 leaves micro “breadcrumbs” behind as the character
 moves. These devices interact with mesh inserts (or
 ectos) as long as they are within range (50 meters),
 allowing the user to map their position in relation to
 the breadcrumb trail. This is useful in derelict habitats,
 wilderness, and other areas where there is no local
 functioning mesh, and is helpful both for mapping
 and for finding one's way back. [Low]
    Electrogravitics Net: Also called a safety net, this fail-
 safe system uses electric fields to counter gravity when
 falling. While the system is not able to actually levitate
 heavy objects, it will slow down a fall enough that the
 user can land safely if the gravitational force is not too
 high (the fall height is not greater than 50 meters in
1G). Generating these electric fields consumes a lot of
 energy, so the net is only charged for one use only and
 needs to be recharged afterwards. [Moderate]
    Electronic Rope: The
 fibers in this rope can be
 controlled electronically,
 making it move in a snake-
 like fashion, stiffen up, and
 even wrap around objects.
Typically comes in a 50-
 meter length capable of
 supporting 250 kg. [Low]
    Emergency Bubble: Com-
 monly used as a last resort
“life raft” on spaceships, an
 emergency bubble is made
 of advanced smart materi-
 als and comes in a por-
 table package that can be
 quickly inflated (1 Action
Turn) around the user, usu-
 ally inside an airlock. The
 bubble has a 5-meter diameter and can comfortably
 accommodate 4 people. It maintains 1 atmosphere of
 pressure in a vacuum, protect the inhabitants from
 temperatures ranging from –175 to 140 C, and pro-
 vide light, breathable air and water and food recycling
 for up to four human-sized inhabitants, using its built
 in maker (p. 327). It features a simple airlock, carries
 an emergency distress beacon (below), and can be
 transparent, opaque, or polarized. It is powered by a
 small nuclear battery and also includes comfortable
 inflatable furniture. [Moderate]
