   Emergency Distress Beacon: This small but power-
ful transmitter is powered by a nuclear battery and
will broadcast any programmed distress call for years.
Though portable and medium-sized, this beacon has
a range of 500 km in urban areas and 5,000 km else-
where. [Moderate]
   Flashlight: These handheld, wearable, or portable
lights can display light in the normal visual spectrum,
infrared, or ultraviolet, as desired. [Trivial]
   Nanobandage: Characters without medichines must
rely on external sources of healing. The most common
option is the nanobandage—a plum-sized advanced
nanotechnology generator built into a reusable, self-
sterilizing bandage. It can treat all forms of injury and
illness, from poisoning to burns to trauma. Characters
simply apply the bandage to the wound and let the
nanobots do the work. It removes pain and discom-
fort and speeds healing (see Biomorph Healing, p.
208). For especially severe injuries, physical first aid
such as setting bones and removing projectiles may
be necessary (gamemaster's choice). If the wounds are
too severe (the patient has suffered more than five
wounds), the unit places the patient in medical stasis
and radios for emergency services. [Trivial]
   Repair Spray: This nanobot generator creates
nanobots designed to repair synthmorphs, vehicles,
and other common objects. Repair spray contains
the specifications and plans for almost all commonly
used synthmorphs and devices and is a ubiquitous
household item. If it does not contain the specifica-
tions for something it is being used to repair, it must
query the object's voice for these details, otherwise it
cannot repair it. Simply touch it to the damaged area,
push the button on top, and it sprays out a number of
nanobots sufficient to make repairs. These nanobots
repair 1d10 points of damage per 2 hours. Once all
damage is restored, the nanobots repair wounds at
the rate of 1 per day. Repair spray also cleans and
polishes items and returns them to a pristine and
new state. Repair spray is not effective on any object
with more than 3 wounds, but it provides a +30 to
all repair rolls on anything too badly damaged for it
to fully repair (see Synthmorph and Object Repair, p.
208). [Low]
   Shelter Dome: A variant of the emergency bubble,
this package unfolds into a dome with a 2.5-meter
ceiling and a floor 4 meters across. To safely use this
shelter, it must be staked down to the surface it is
placed on. [Moderate]
   Spindle: A spindle is an advanced nanotechnology
generator that produces a super-strong cable. It can
produce up to 2 kilometers of 0.2 millimeter diameter
line than can support up to 250 kilograms before it
needs more raw materials. The spindle can produce
up to 20 meters of cable every second. It can produce
line in a continuous length or cut the cable it produces
to any length. Spindles can also reabsorb their cable,
retracting it at a rate of 5 m per second. As long as
it is recharged and has small amounts of additional
material added every 1,000 hours of use, a spindle
can keep producing and retracting cable indefinitely.
By setting the maximum production speed at 10 m/
second a character with a spindle can safely jump
off a building and land safely, using the cable to slow
their descent. [Moderate]
   Spindle Climber: This device attaches to a spindle
and transforms it into a highly effective climbing
device. The spindle climber has two functions. First, it
attaches hardened tips to the spindle's cable and fires
it at high speed, up to 50 meters, with sufficient force
to imbed the tip into almost any sufficiently durable
surface. Second, the spindle climber can pull itself and
up to 250 kg up the cable at a speed of up to 2 m/sec.
A spindle climber has enough power to shoot and pull
up the cable 50 times before it must be recharged. A
spindle fits inside a spindle climber. [Low]

VACUUM SUITS
Most vacuum suits are skin-tight garments that use
the pressure of their advanced smartfabrics on the
wearer's body to resist vacuum. When the wearer is in
a breathable atmosphere, the smartfabric also loosens
the suits to serve as ordinary clothing or be easily
put on or taken off. In all cases, the suits can become
skin-tight within 3 Action Turns. All vacsuits contain
advanced rebreather units capable of maintaining a
breathable atmosphere for several hours or days.
   Light Vacsuit: Everyone living in a sealed habitat
owns at least one of these suits. They come in a vari-
ety of forms. Inexpensive versions are typically light-
weight jumpsuits made of simple smart fabric that
adjusts to fit and folds up small enough to fit into a
coat pocket. The best models include suits of high-end
smart clothing that can transform into a vacsuit and
an advanced nanotech generator the size of a large
orange that deploy nanobots that cover the user and
fit together into a vacuum suit. Both can transform
into a vacsuit in 2 full Action Turns and do so either
on command or if their sensors reveal that life sup-
port is needed.
   All models include a lightweight belt or torc
containing a miniature oxygen tank and advanced
rebreather unit that provides 3 hours of air. How-
ever, the suits contain no food or water recycling. All
models include an ecto (p. 325) and a headlight, but
typically little else beyond atmosphere sensors to let
the wearer know when it is safe to take off the suit.
They protect the wearer from temperatures from –75
to 100 C. These vacuum suits also provide an Armor
rating of 5/5 and instantly self-seal breaches unless
more than 20 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Low, Moderate for smartfabric suits]
   Standard Vacsuit: These suits resemble light vac-
suits made from thicker and more durable materials
that resist tearing and provides the wearer with light
armor. They are fitted with more substantial life sup-
port belts that includes a maker (p. 327) capable of
recycling all wastes and producing air for up to 48
hours and food and water indefinitely. The best suits
are made of smart materials that can transform from
