standard clothing to vacuum suits in a single Action
Turn, and will do so automatically if life support is
needed. Each suit also contains an ecto (p. 325), a
radio booster (p. 313), and sensors equal to specs (see
p. 325). These suits have an Armor rating of 7/7 and
protect the wearer from temperatures from –175 to
140 C. They can almost instantly seal any hole unless
more than 30 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Moderate, High for smartfabric suits]
   Hard Suit: This heavy-duty suit can almost be
considered a miniature space ship. Hard Suits look
like large metallic ovals with jointed arms and legs.
They are quite heavy, but the user can move relatively
easily by using servo assist motors in all the major
joints of the arms and legs. Unlike other vacsuits, they
are solid and can resist both vacuum and up to 100
atmospheres of external pressure. Characters wearing
hard suits can safely explore the upper atmosphere
of a gas giant. They are well armored against punc-
tures and radiation and possess miniature plasma
thrusters capable of delivering 0.01G for 10 hours. A
built-in high quality maker produces sufficient food,
air, and water that a user can remain in a hard suit
indefinitely. Explorers have used them continuously
for up to 2 months. Their gloves incorporate smart
materials that allow each hand to use the equivalent
of a utilitool (p. 326). Hard suits also contain radios
and sensors equivalent to those on standard vacsuits.
These suits have an Armor rating of 15/15, are main-
tained by a fixer nanohive (p. 329), and are instantly
self-sealing of any breach unless more than 30 points
of damage are inflicted at once. They protect the
wearer from temperatures of –200 to 180 C. [High]



WEAPONS
A wide range of weapons are available in Eclipse
Phase, from the primitive to the technologically
advanced.

MELEE WEAPONS
Melee weapons are those wielded by hand (or foot) in
melee combat. They are divided by the skill be which
they are used.

BLADES
These weapons are wielded with Blades skill.
   Diamond Axe: Commonly found on many habitats
for fire and emergency purposes, axes require two
hands to wield. Their blades are diamond-coated for
superior cutting ability. [Low]
   Flex Cutter: The blade of this machete-like weapon
is made of a memory polymer. When deactivated, the
blade is limp and flexible, and may even be rolled up
or otherwise easily concealed. When activated, how-
ever, the blade stiffens and sharpens into a vicious
slashing weapon. [Low]
   Knife: A standard cutting implement, still carried
by many. [Trivial]
   Monofilament Sword: Though swords are rather
archaic in the time of Eclipse Phase, a few eccentrics
take advantage of modern versions with a self-
sharpening near-monomolecular edge, easily capable
of slicing through metal or limbs. [Low]
   Vibroblade: These buzzing electronic blades vibrate
at a high frequency for extra cutting ability. This
has little extra effect when stabbing or slashing, but
provides an extra –3 AP and +2d10 damage when
carefully sawing through something. [Low]
   Wasp Knife: Wasp knives are equipped with a can-
ister in their handle. The common use is to fill these
canisters with pressured air, which inflates inside
the target. This is potentially lethal in vacuum or
pressurized environments (like underwater), as the
gas bursts out of the body cavity to escape (+2d10
damage in such situations). Wasp knives may also
be loaded with chemicals, drugs, or nanobots. The
target must be damaged for the canister's contents to
affect them. [Low]

CLUBS
Characters use Clubs skill when using these weapons.
  Club: Clubs encompasses a wide range of one-hand-
ed blunt objects, from saps to sticks to pipes. [Trivial]
  Extendable Baton: This hardened composite baton
retracts into its handle for easy carrying, storage, or
concealment. Extending it simply requires a flick or
an electronic signal. [Trivial]
  Shock Baton: Shock batons are standard clubs
used for policing duties, but when activated they also
deliver an electric shock to struck targets (see Shock
Attacks, p. 204). [Low]

EXOTIC MELEE WEAPONS
Unusual weapons requires a specific Exotic Melee
field skill to use.
   Monowire Garrote: This assassin's weapon fea-
tures a dangerous monomolecular wire wrapped
around a contained spool with two handles. One
handle grips the spool, while the other extends the
wire so that it may be used to wrap around targets
(typically necks or limbs) and slice through them
when pulled. Monofilament tensile strength is weak,
however, usually breaking after one use. [Moderate]

UNARMED
These weapons are wielded using Unarmed Combat skill.
  Densiplast Gloves: These gloves extra-harden when
activated, for extra punch. [Trivial]
  Shock Gloves: When activated, these gloves deliver
an incapacitating shock along with every punch or
grab. Note that the effect is the same whether wearing
one glove or two. [Low]
