   Hollow-Point: Hollow-point bullets are designed to
deform and widen once they penetrate a target, thus
inflicting more damage. [Trivial]
   Jammer: Jammers stick to the target and pulse out
jamming electromagnetic signals, jamming the target's
wireless communications. If an Opposed Test is called
for, these devices have an Interface of 30. See Radio
Jamming, p. 262. [Low]
   Plastic: Plastic ammo is designed to hurt but not
wound targets, and is commonly used for crowd con-
trol purposes. [Trivial]
   Reactive: The casing on these projectiles is made
of reactive materials that release a large amount of
energy when subjected to a sudden shock or impact—
such as striking a target. In other words, they explode
or superheat when they hit. [High]
   Reactive Armor-Piercing (RAP): This is a tung-
sten-carbide armor-piercing round with a reactive
casing, allowing the ammunition to penetrate even
further. [Moderate]
   Regular Ammo: This standard metal projectile is
designed to put holes into morphs. [Trivial]
   Splash: Splash rounds carry a payload like capsule
ammo, but are designed to break upon impact rather
than penetrating, splashing their contents on the
target's exterior. Splash rounds are typically loaded
with paint, taggant nanobots, tracker dye, and similar
substances. [Trivial plus payload cost]
   Zap: Zap rounds are rubber or gel bullets that
create an electric charge upon firing in a piezoelectric
like manner to stun the target effectively with both
the bullet and the electric shock. [Trivial]



SMART AMMO
Smart ammunition takes advantage of nanotechnol-
ogy to produce bullets that can alter their flight path,
home in the target, and correct aim. Smart ammo may
not be used with railguns. With the exception of biter,
flayer, and proximity rounds, smart ammo may be
combined with other ammo types (accushot armor-
piercing, for example).
   Accushot: Accushot bullets change shape within
flight to keep dead on course, countering the effects
of wind, drag, and gravity over distance. Attacks
made with accushot bullets ignore all range modi-
fiers. [Low]
   Biter: Biters are specially-designed to fragment in
opposite proportion to the hardness of the target they
strike. For hard targets (synthmorphs), they frag-
ment very little, blasting a big hole. For soft targets
(biomorphs), they fragment and tumble in multiple
directions within the body. [Low]
   Flayer: Flayers have nanosensors to detect an on-
coming impact, shooting out monomolecular barbs
as they are about to strike a target. These monowires
cut through the target along with the bullet, inflicting
additional damage. [Low]
   Homing: When fired with a smartlink system, the
bullet identifies the target and uses nanosensors to
lock on, correcting the bullet's trajectory with surface
alterations and tiny vectored nozzles. Apply a +10
modifier to the Attack Test, cumulative with aiming
and smartlink modifiers. Homing bullets may also be
used for indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]
   Laser-Guided: These bullets function like homing
smart rounds (apply the +10 attack modifier), except
rather than requiring a smartlink system, they lock
onto the reflection of the laser sight used to paint
the target. Laser-guided bullets may also be used for
indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]
   Proximity: Proximity is an explosive ammunition
that identifies the target when fired via smartlink. If
the round determines that it will miss the target, it will
still explode if it reaches the close proximity of the
target. If the attack misses with an MoF of 10 or less,
the round explodes 1d10 meters away from the target
and inflicts 1d10 area effect damage (see Blast Effect,
p. 193) in the proximity of the target. [Moderate]
   Zero: Similar to homing smart rounds, zero bullets
identify the target when fired via smartlink. Whether
the round hits or misses, however, it sends telem-
etry data back to the next zero bullet, allowing it to
course-correct and “zero in” to hit the target (or hit
more accurately). Apply a +10 modifier to each shot
(or burst) fired after the first against the same target in
the same Action Turn. [Low]

BEAM WEAPONS
Beam weapons is a broad category for a number of elec-
tromagnetic weapons with a wide range of effects. With
a few exceptions, energy weapons are primarily used for
less-than-lethal purposes, designed to impair the target
rather than kill it. Their poor performance against armor,
lesser ability to damage targets, and high power require-
ments make them less versatile than kinetic weapons.
The wielders of such weapons use Beam Weapons skill.
   Beam weapons are powered by nuclear batteries.
This battery is good for a list number of shots before
it is depleted. Batteries may be recharged at the rate
of 20 shots per hour.
   Laser Pulsers: Laser weapons use focused beams of
light to inflict damage on the target by burning into it
and causing it's outer surface to vaporize and expand,
creating an explosive effect. The laser beam is pulsed
in order to bite into the target before the beam is dif-
fused. Pulsers are vulnerable to atmospheric effects
like dust, mist, smoke, or rain, however—the game-
master should reduce their effective range categories
as appropriate. Note that laser pulses are invisible in
the normal visual spectrum (but are visible to charac-
ters with enhanced vision). Pulsers are medium-sized
(p. 297) and fire in semi-auto mode. [Moderate]
   One advantage to the pulser is that it can be placed
in less-lethal mode. In this case, it first fires a pulse at
the target to create a ball of plasma, quickly fired by
a second pulse that strikes the plasma and creates a
flash-bang shockwave to stun and disorient the target.
This blast has an area of effect with a 1-meter radius.
Anyone caught in the blast must make a SOM x 2
