    Seeker Rifle (Micromissile/Minimissile): The seeker
 rifle comes in a bullpup configuration and fires either
 micromissiles or minimissiles in semi-auto mode. It is
 a two-handed weapons. [High]
    Underbarrel Seeker (Micromissile): This seeker
 micromissile launcher is commonly attached to the
 underbarrel of SMGs or assault rifles. It fires in semi-
 auto mode. [Moderate]

 SPRAY WEAPONS
 Spray weapons blast their ammunition outwards in a
 widening cone, allowing them to strike several targets
 at once. These weapons are wielded with Spray Weap-
 ons skill. Spray weapon ammunition has a flat cost
 of Low per 100 shots (with the exception of buzzers,
 which use nanoswarms).
    Buzzer: Equipped with a specialized nanobot hive,
 Buzzers are used to spray a nanoswarm (p. 328) on a
 target or area. They have a limited capacity of swarms,
 though the nanohive can construct one new swarm
 each hour. This weapon is two-handed. [Moderate]
    Freezer: Freezers spew out a fast-hardening foam
 that immediately begins to harden. They are primar-
 ily used as a non-lethal method of immobilizing or
 securing a target. Struck characters must immediately
 make a REF x 3 Test or become trapped. Apply a –30
 modifier to this test if the attacker scored an Excel-
 lent Success (MoS 30+). The foam allows characters
 to breath even if their mouth and nose are covered,
 but it may impede sight. Freezer foam can be spiked
 with contact toxins or drugs to additionally sedate
 the target. It can also be used to construct temporary
 barricades or cover. Hardened foam has an Armor of
 10 and Durability of 20. It slowly breaks down and
 degrades over a 12 hour period. Freezers are two-
 handed. [Moderate]
    Shard Pistol: The shard pistol is a flechette weapon,
 firing a stream of of diamondoid monomolecular
 shards at high velocities. These micro flechettes are
 very good at penetrating armor, but they do not dis-
 perse kinetic energy well and so do not cause as much
 tissue damage as kinetic weapons. Shard ammunition
 is often coated with drugs or toxins for extra effi-
 ciency. [Low]
    Shredder: A heavier version of the shard pistol,
 the shredder fires a larger cloud of lethal flechettes,
 enough to shred a portion of the target into a fine
 mist. [Moderate]


                                                SPRAY W
SPRAY WEAPONS          ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)        DAMA
Buzzer                             —
Freezer                            —                        in
Shard                              –10
Shredder                           –10
Sprayer                      as chemical/drug           as
Torch                              –4
       Sprayer: This is a general-purpose two-handed
    squirtgun, loaded with tanks filled with the chemical
    or drug of the wielder's choice. [Low]
       Torch: This modern flamethrower uses condensed
    ammunition capsules rather than fuel tanks, scorch-
    ing targets and setting them on fire. Any hit that is
    an Excellent Success (MoS 30+) sets the target on
    fire, where they will continue to take 2d10 damage
    per Action Turn. These chemical fires are particularly
    difficult to put out unless they are deprived of oxygen.
    Torches are two-handed. [Moderate]

    GRENADES AND SEEKERS
   Grenades and seeker missiles come in similar muni-
   tions packages and with similar trigger mechanisms,
   though their packaging, physical form, and methods
   of application differ. Seeker missiles are fired from a
    seeker launcher (p. 339) using Seeker Weapons skill.
   Grenades are thrown at targets using Throwing Weap-
   ons skill. If a grenade or seeker misses, use the rules
   for scatter (p. 204).
      Grenades are available in standard form or as
   microgrenades. Similarly, missiles are available in
    standard, minimissile, or micromissile sizes. Standard
    grenades and minimissiles are the baseline standard
   for listed effects. All are area effect weapons (p. 193).
   Minigrenades and micromissiles inflict –1d10 damage
   (or have another decreased effect as noted). Standard
   missiles double the listed DV. For weapons with a
   unfirom blast effect or other static blast area, divide
   the base listed radius in half for minigrenades and mi-
    cromissiles and double it for standard missiles. Listed
    costs are for 10 grenades/missiles.
      Each seeker has one smart ammo option (p. 338)
   other than biter or flayer.
      Concussion: These devices emit a concussive blast
   designed to knock opponents off their feet and stun
   them. Any character caught within a base blast radius
   of 10 meters must make a SOM x 2 Test. If they fail,
   they are knocked down. If their MoF is 30+, they are
   additionally stunned until the end of the next Action
   Turn. Anyone caught in the blast radius suffers a
   –10 action modifier for the rest of that Action Turn.
   [Moderate]
      EMP: EMP munitions fire off a strong electromag-
   netic pulse when they “detonate.” Since most electron-
   ics in Eclipse Phase are built with optical technology,
   and power supplies and sensitive microcircuits are


EAPONS
 VALUE (DV)      AVERAGE DV        FIRING MODES      AMMO
 swarm                 —                 SS             3
 citation              —                 SA            20
 0+6                   11             SA, BF, FA       100
 0+5                   16             SA, BF, FA       100
mical/drug      as chemical/drug         SA            20
d10                    16                SS            20
