 shielded and surge-protected, this has no major
 damaging effect. Antennas, however, are vulnerable,
 especially finer wires like those used with mesh inserts.
 As a result, the primary effect of EMP is to disable
 radio communications—every radio within range of
 the blast is reduced to 1/10th the normal range. The
 base blast radius for EMP is 50 meters. [High]
    Frag: Fragmentation explosives spread a cloud of
 lethal flechettes over the area of effect. They are re-
 sisted with kinetic armor. [Moderate]
    Gas/Smoke: Gas/smoke munitions emit a cloud of
 their contained substance. Smoke impedes sight by
 releasing thick fumes upon ignition of the seeker. The
 smoke can be of any color and is often heated (called
 thermal smoke) to obfuscate heat signatures moving
 through the smoke as cover. Note that gases dissipate
 much more quickly under certain environmental con-
 ditions (wind, rain, etc.) [Low]
    High-Explosive: High-explosive seekers and gre-
 nades are designed to create a very destructive shock
 and heat wave. This damage is resisted with energy
 armor. [Moderate]
    High-Explosive Armor-Piercing (HEAP): A design
 only available for seekers (not grenades), HEAP
 warheads use high explosives to blast a path for
 a penetrating round. HEAPs lose –4 damage per
 meter distance from the blast, as opposed to the
 usual –2. [Moderate]
    Overload: Overload grenades and seekers launch an
 all-out assault on the target's sensory spectrum. This
 attack includes blinding by intense flashing light, a
 deafening thunderclap followed by intense ultrasonic
 screaming, nausea-inducing malodorants, and infra-
 sonic frequencies that can trigger unpleasant emotion-
 al responses (anxiety, uneasiness, extreme sorrow, ner-
 vous feelings of revulsion or fear). For an extra kick,
 overloads are also packed with “stingballs”—rubber
 pellets that inflict pain when detonated near an under-
 armored target. Anyone caught in the base 10-meter
 blast radius must make a SOM + WIL Test. If they fail,
 they must immediately leave the area of effect. If they
 fail with an MoF of 30+, they are incapacitated for
 3 Action Turns with disorientation and/or vomiting,
 after which they must roll again. Overload munitions



                                      GRENADES
GRENADE/SEEKER TYPE                    AP
Concussion                              —
Frag                                    –4
EMP                                     —
Gas/Smoke                               —
High-Explosive                          —
HEAP                                    –8
Overload                             (AV x 2)
Plasmaburst                             –6
Splash                                  —
Thermobaric                            –10
   remain in effect for 1 full minute. Anyone in the area
   of effect suffers a –30 action modifier, which reduces
   by 10 per Action Turn after they leave the area. Ad-
   ditionally, anyone facing the direction of the overload
   round suffers a –10 glare modifier (neutralized by
   anti-glare systems). [Moderate]
      Plasmaburst: Also called “hellballs,” these muni-
   tions release a burst of plasma upon detonation that
   causes searing heat and fire damage across the area of
   effect without the devastating shockwaves of explo-
   sions that might rebound in an enclosed environment
   and/or breach a habitat's infrastructure. [High]
      Splash: Splash rounds spread a contained substance
   (drug, chemical, nanoswarm, paint) over a base 10-
   meter blast radius when they detonate. [Low plus
   payload cost]
      Thermobaric: Thermobaric grenades and seekers
   utilize a more deadly form of explosion. When they
   detonate, they disperse a cloud of aerosol explosive
   over an area and then ignite, literally setting the air
   on fire, generating a devastating pressure wave, and
   sucking the oxygen out of the area. Thermobarics use
   the rules for uniform blast (p. 194). [High]

   STICKY GRENADES
   Sticky grenades have a special coating that when trig-
   gered becomes a sticky adhesive, allowing the grenade
   to be stuck to almost any surface. Sticky grenades can
   even be wielded in melee combat, smacking them on
   an opponent to be detonated later. [Trivial]

   EXOTIC RANGED WEAPONS
  These weapons are either rare or distinctly separate
  from other weapons types. These weapons are wielded
  with an Exotic Ranged Weapon skill of the appropri-
  ate field.
     Vortex Ring Gun: This less-lethal two-handed
  weapon detonates a blank cartridge and accelerates
  the explosive pressure down a widening barrel so that
  it develops into a high-speed vortex ring—a spinning,
  donut-shaped blast vortex. This concussive blast is
  used to knock down and incapacitate close-range
  targets. Struck targets suffer a –10 action modifier for
  the rest of that Action Turn and must must succeed in



ND SEEKERS
  DV              AVERAGE DV      ARMOR USED TO RESIST
1d10 ÷ 2                5                    E
3d10 + 6               22                    K
  —                    —                    —
  —                    —                    —
d10 + 10               26                    E
d10 + 12               28                    K
1d10 ÷ 2                5                    K
d10 + 10               26                    E
  —                    —                    —
3d10 + 5               21                    E
