a SOM x 2 Test or fall down. If their MoF is 30+, they
are additionally stunned and unable to act until the
end of the next Action Turn. Drugs, chemicals, and
similar agents may be loaded into the charge as well.
[Moderate]

WEAPON ACCESSORIES
The following accessories are available for various
weapons.
   Arm Slide: This slide-mount can hold a pistol-
sized weapon under a character's sleeve, pushing the
weapon into the character's hand with an electronic
signal or specific sequence of arm movements. [Low]
   Extended Magazine: This ammunition case has
an increased capacity. Increase the weapon's ammo
capacity by +50%. Only available for firearms and
seekers. [Low]
   Gyromount: This weapon harness features a gyro-
stabilized weapon mount that keeps the weapon steady.
Negates all modifiers from movement. [Moderate]
   Imaging Scope: Imaging scopes attach to the top of
the weapon and act like specs (p. 325). Scopes may
also bend like a periscope, along a character to point
the weapon and target around corners without leav-
ing cover. [Low]
   Flash Suppressor: This device obscures the muzzle
flash on firearms, applying a –10 modifier on Percep-
tion Tests to locate a firing weapon by its flash. [Low]
   Laser Sight: This underbarrel laser emits a beam
that places a glowing red dot on the target to assist
targeting. Apply a +10 modifier to Attack Tests (not
cumulative with a smartlink modifier). Laser sights
may also be used to paint a target for laser-guided
smart ammo or seekers. Infrared and ultraviolet lasers
are also available, so that the dot is only visible to
characters able to see in those spectrums. [Low]
   Safety System: A biometric (palmprint or voice-
print) or ego ID (p. 279) sensor is embedded in the
weapon, disabling it if anyone other than an autho-
rized user attempts to fire it. [Low]
   Shock Safety: Just like a safety system, except that
an unauthorized user is zapped with an electric shock.
Treat as a shock baton (p. 334). [Moderate]
   Silencer/Sound Suppressor: This barrel-mounted
accessory reduces the sound of a firearm's discharge.
Apply a –10 modifier on hearing-based Perception
Tests to hear or locate the gun's firing. [Moderate]
   Smartlink: A smartlink system connects the weapon
to the user's mesh inserts, placing a targeting bracket
in the character's field of vision and providing range
and targeting information. Apply a +10 modifier to
the Attack Test. Smartlinks also incorporate a micro-
camera that allows the user to see what the weapon
is pointed at, fire around corners, etc. Smartlinks also
allow certain other types of weapon system control,
such as changing flux ammo (p. 337) or programming
seeker trigger conditions (p. 199). [Moderate]
   Smart Magazine: A smart magazine allows the
character to pick and choose what ammo round will
be fired with each shot. This system leaves less room
for bullets, however, so reduce the weapon's ammu-
nition capacity by half (round up). Smart magazines
may be combined with extended magazines, in which
case ammo capacity is normal. [Moderate]
