  ROBOTS AND VEHICLES
 The following is a small selection of the many vehicles
 in use in the solar system. Almost all of the vehicles
 in current use, including all of the vehicles listed here,
 have built-in AIs capable of piloting the vehicle under
 almost all circumstances. In most cases, passengers
 simply state their destination and the vehicle takes
 them there. Manual piloting is primarily used in
 emergencies or by people who prefer the exotic thrill
 of controlling their own vehicle.
   Rules for handling robots and vehicles are detailed
 on p. 195. Any of these shells may be modified for use
 as a synthetic morph by adding a cyberbrain system
 (p. 300). Each of the shells listed here comes with a
 puppet sock (p. 307) for remote-control operation.

  AIRCRAFT
 On Mars, Venus, and within large open-space habitats
 like O'Neil cylinders, aircraft of various kinds see regular
 use. This includes modern version of rotorcraft (helicop-
 ters, autogyros, tilt-rotors), fixed-wing planes, and zep-
 pelins and other lighter-than-air craft. These are typically
 propelled by turbofan or jet engines, rotors, or vectored
 thrust. These vehicles are piloted with Pilot: Aircraft skill.
    Microlight: This ultra-light personal aircraft is
 not much more than a strut-based wing, an airframe,
 and an electric propeller engine. They are ideal for
 getting around inside large habitats with enclosed
 airspace. [Low]
    Portable Plane: Powered by superconducting bat-
 teries and with an exceedingly small but powerful
 electric motor, this light but durable propeller plane
 is made of smart materials that allow it to be swiftly
 folded up into a small portable package. Different ver-
 sions are designed for flight on Mars, Titan, or Venus,
 each taking 10 minutes to assemble or disassemble.
 The Martian version unpacks into an airplane with a
 wingspan of 11 m with a top speed of 250 kph and a
 cruising speed of 220 kph and a range of 1,300 km.
 The Venusian version has a wingspan of 9 m, a top
 speed of 200 kph and a range of 1,000 km. The ver-
 sion designed for use on Titan has a wingspan of 8
 m and has a top speed of 200 kph and a range of
 2,000 km. In all versions, the two occupants ride in
 an inflatable and insulated pressurized bubble with a
 life support system capable of providing clean air and
 comfortable temperatures for 20 hours on Mars and
 Venus, and 15 hours on Titan. [High]


                                              VEHICLES—
                    PASSENGER                      MOVEMENT
AIRCRAFT             CAPACITY       HANDLING         RATE
Microlight                1             +20            8/40
Portable Plane            2             +10             —
Rocket Buggy              4             –10            8/32
Small Jet                 6             +20             —
      Rocket Buggy: This vehicle is the most common
   form of medium to long distance personal transport
   on Luna, and is in common on most other moons
   and large asteroids. On these airless worlds, a rocket
   buggy can reach orbit and return or take a parabolic
   path to any destination on that moon in less than
   an hour. This vehicle is also regularly used to travel
   between habitats that are less than 30,000 km apart.
   The vehicle is pressurized, but is designed for short
   duration travel only. The seats are relatively small
   and the life support system contains no provisions
   for recycling food or water and can only support the
   passengers for an absolute maximum of 50 uncom-
   fortable hours. Rockets buggies come equipped with
   headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
   up to 250 km.
     A version of this vehicle is also used on both Mars
   and Titan, but here the frame has been modified to
   act as a lifting body, and it has a top speed in the thin
   Martian atmosphere of 2,500 km/hour and a range
   of 8,000 km on Mars. On Titan is has a top speed
   of 3,000 kph in the atmosphere, but it can also reach
   orbit. [Expensive]
      Small Jet: Methane-powered jet planes are one of
   the most common forms of fast transport on Mars
   and Venus. Similar planes are used on Titan, except
   that they carry both liquid methane and liquid oxygen.
   These jets range in size from huge vehicles the size of
   late 20th-century airliners to small planes designed to
   carry half a dozen passengers. All jets are made using
   smart materials, so that their wings and frames can
   adapt to a wide range of speeds and altitudes. One
   common small jet has similar versions in use on Venus,
   Mars, and Titan, has a single jet engine and has a life
   support system capable of providing air for up to 100
   hours. The Venusian and Martian versions both have
   a top speed of 900 kph, a wingspan of 11 m, and a
   maximum range of 5,000 km. The version designed
   for Titan has a wingspan of 8 m, a top speed of 650
   kph, and a range of 4,000 km. Jets are equipped with
   headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
   up to 250 km. [Expensive]

   EXOSKELETONS
   Exoskeletons are powered mechatronic skeleton
   frameworks worn by a person. Servo-hydraulic joints
   allow the exoskeleton to be maneuvered by mimick-
   ing the wearer's own movements, as well as enhanc-
   ing their strength. Exoskeletons may also be piloted


AIRCRAFT
                                                 WOUND
MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
    100              —              30              10
  200–250           10/6            50              10
 2,500–3,000        24/16           100             20
  650-900           30/20           200             30
