electronically. A character wearing an exoskeleton
(other than the trike or transporter) maneuvers as
normal, because the exoskeleton is like an extension
of their own body. A character jamming an exoskel-
eton remotely uses Pilot: Walker skill (except for the
trike and transporter).
   Battle Suit: The battle suit powered exoskel-
eton features a military-grade fullerene armor shell
with flexible aerogel for thermal insulation and a
diamond-hardened exterior designed to resist even
potent ballistic and energy-based weapons. The suit
also enhances the wearer's strength and mobility, ap-
plying a +10 bonus to strength-based tests, inflicting
an extra +1d10 damage and AP of –2 on melee at-
tacks, and doubling the distance by which the char-
acter may jump. Battlesuits are completely sealed to
protect the wearer from environmental factors, and
fitted with life support features and a maker (p. 327)
capable of recycling all wastes and producing air
for up to 48 hours and food and water indefinitely.
Battle suits are equipped with each an ecto (p. 325),
a radio booster (p. 313), and sensors equal to specs
(see p. 325). These suits have an Armor Value of
18/18 (not cumulative with any other armor) and
protect the wearer from temperatures from –175 to
140 C. [Expensive]
   Exowalker: Exowalkers are minimal framework
exoskeletons, primarily designed to bolster the
wearer's strength and movement. They provide a an
Armor Value of 2/4, a +10 modifier to strength-based
tests, and double the distance by which the character
may jump. [Moderate]
   Hyperdense Exoskeleton: These powered exoskel-
etons are larger (roughly twice human-sized) and built
for heavy-use industrial purposes, such as handling
heavy/large objects. The wearer is partially encapsulated
to protect them from debris and industrial accidents.
Hyperdense exoskeletons provide no movement bonus,
but provide a +30 bonus to strength-based tests and
inflict an extra +3d10 damage and –5 AP on physical
attacks. They have an Armor Value of 6/12. [Expensive]
   Transporter: This exoskeleton framework includes
a pair of vector-thrust turbofan engines, giving the
user flight capabilities in gravity and increased maneu-
verability in zero-G. It provides partial protection to
the wearer with an Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with
Pilot: Aircraft skill. [High]


                                    VEHICLES—E
                  PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT
AIRCRAFT           CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE
Battlesuit              1             —            8/32
Exowalker               1             —            8/40
Hyperdense
                        1             —            8/20
Exoskeleton
Transporter             1            +10           8/40
Trike                   1            +10           8/40
    Trike: The trike exoskeleton is a three-wheeled
  personal motorcycle design, rather than a walker. It
  provides partial protection to the wearer with an
  Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with Pilot: Groundrcraft
  skill. [Moderate]

  GROUNDCRAFT
  In Eclipse Phase, trains and bicycles remain the most
  common form of ground transportation, especially on
  habitats. In larger habitats and on moons and planets,
  cycles and cars are used as well.
     Cycle: Because of the high cost of enclosing a habi-
  tat and providing life support, space is at a premium
  in all cities except some of the newest cities on Mars.
  As a result, there is rarely room for large roads or the
  cars that once carpeted the roads of Earthly cities.
  Instead, the ubiquitous modern vehicle is the cycle,
  which is designed to drive down narrow streets only a
  little wider than sidewalks in Earth cities.
     There are many different varieties of cycle. Some
  have only a single wheel and are gyro-stabilized, but
  most have two wheels and resemble old Earth motor-
  cycles. In some, the driver and passenger are enclosed
  by a streamlined pod. These vehicles are powered
  by superconducting batteries, have a range of 600
  km and a top speed of 120 kph, but must usually
  drive more slowly in crowded streets. Cycles are all
  equipped with radio boosters, headlights, and a por-
  table radar sensor. Tires are solid state (not inflated),
  or in some cases smart spokes capable of handling
  stairs. Some luxury versions have limited life-support
  in the small cabin, capable of providing air for the
  passengers for up to 10 hours. [Moderate]
     Mars Buggy: One of the most ubiquitous vehicles
  on Mars is the so-called Mars buggy, a four-wheeled
  vehicle with large balloon tires that is designed for
  use both on roads and on almost any terrain. Mars
  buggies can travel at speed of up to 110 kph on roads,
  90 kph over relatively flat terrain, and up to 40 kph
  on jagged and rocky terrain. They can maintain these
  speeds because smart materials in both the suspension
  and the tires reshape themselves to adapt to uneven
  conditions and their nuclear batteries give them an
  effectively unlimited range. Most Mars buggies are
  enclosed but unpressurized. Similar vehicles are used
  on Luna and Titan, however, though the passenger
  compartments of these vehicles includes life support


OSKELETONS
                                                 WOUND
MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
     30             18/18           60              12
     40              2/4            30              6

     30             6/12           100              20

    200              2/4            50              10
    120              2/4            50              10
