 gear that provides the occupants with air for at least
 100 hours. Buggies are powered by nuclear batteries
 and come in a variety of sizes, from small two-person
 buggies to large trucks. Mars buggies come equipped
 with headlights, radio boosters, and a vehicle radar
 system. [High]

 PERSONAL VEHICLES
 These one-person movement aids primarily are used in
 space, but do not count as spacecraft per se.
   EVA Sled: This small sled uses air impellers to maneu-
 ver in zero-G. It is commonly used to carry attached gear,
 but may also pull along 1 human-sized morph. [Low]
   Rocket Pack: This is a miniature metallic hydrogen
 rocket that the wearer straps to their back, with two
 rocket exhausts extending out to either side, away
 from the wearer's body or legs. Biomorphs and pod
 morphs can only safely use this vehicle when wear-
 ing a vacuum suit or some garment that is similarly
 heat resistant. Also, to prevent harm to the wearer, the
 thrust must be kept sufficiently low that it can only
 take off on Mars or moons with even lower gravity. A
 rocket pack can keep the wearer airborne for up to 15
 minutes in Mars gravity, or 30 minutes on Luna, Titan,
 or any of the four large Jovian moons. On Mars, it
 has a maximum speed of 700 kph. It can be used to
 reach orbit and land again on Luna, Titan, and other
 similarly small bodies like the Jovian moons. Rocket
 packs are equipped with radio boosters but no other
 sensors or communication devices. [Low]
   Thruster Pack: Worn for EVA duties, this thruster
 pack uses vectored thrust nozzles, allowing a charac-
 ter to maneuver in open space. This is not a jetpack
 and does not produce enough thrust for atmospheric
 movement. [Low]

 ROBOTS
 Robots are a common sight and accepted fact of daily
 life within Eclipse Phase. Numerous varieties exist,
 from robo-pets to mechanical workers to warbots.
 If a job can be done more cheaply (and sometimes
 safely) by a bot, it usually is. The robots listed here
 are not generally used as synthetic shells by transhu-
 man egos, often for cultural reasons (sleeving a case
 is bad enough, sleeving a creepy is just ... wrong), and


                 VEHICLES—GROUNDCR
                   PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT
GROUNDCRAFT         CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE
Cycle                  1–3            +20           4/40
Mars Buggy             2–6            +10           8/32


PERSONAL           PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT
VEHICLES            CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE
EVA Sled                1             –30           4/16
Rocket Pack             1             –20            —
Thruster Pack           1             –10           4/20
   they are not equipped to be sleeved into (though the
   may be jammed; see p. 196). Any of these bots may
   be modified for use as a synthetic morph, however, by
   adding a cyberbrain system (p. 300).
      Automech: Automechs are general purpose repair
   drones, found just about everywhere. Each particular
   automech tends to specialize in a particular type of
   repair work and so carries the appropriate tools and
   AI skills, whether it be habitat waste recyclers, outer
   hull integrity, or servitor systems. Standard automechs
   are wheeled cubes with articulated limbs, though they
   are also equipped with vectored-thrust drives for
   zero-G work. [Moderate]
      Creepy: Creepies are small crawler bots that come
   in an eclectic variety of shapes and forms, from robo-
   squirrels to insectoids to bizarre and artsy mechanical
   creatures. Creepies were originally designed as a sort of
   robotic pet, but they are commonly used as a general
   purpose household minion, like a more beloved servi-
   tor. Many people in fact wear a creepy on their person,
   dropping it to handle small tasks for them and letting it
   crawl up and down and over their body. [Low]
      Dr. Bot: These wheeled medical robots are designed
   to tend to and transport injured or sick people. They
   carry a healing vat (p. 326), a specialized pharmaceu-
   ticals maker, miscellaneous medical gear, and articu-
   lated arms for conducting remote surgery. [Moderate]
      Dwarf: These large industrial bots are named not
   just for their primary use—mining, excavation, tun-
   neling, and construction—but because the default
   AIs they shipped with had a programmed tendency
   to happily whistle as they worked. Dwarfs are quad-
   rapedal walkers, equipped with massive modular
   industrial tools like boring drills, shovels, hydraulic
   jacks, jackhammers, scooping arms, acid sprays, and
   so on. [Expensive]
      Gnat: Gnats are small rotorcraft camera/surveil-
   lance drones. Many people use gnats for personal
   lifelogging, while socialites and media use them to
   capture the glamor or hottest news. [Low]
      Guardian Angel: Similar to gnats, guardian angel ro-
   torcraft hover around their charges, keeping a watch-
   ful eye out to protect them from threats. [Moderate]
      Saucer: These disc-shaped drones are lightweight
   and quiet. They are typically launched by throwing


FT, PERSONAL VEHICLES
                                                 WOUND
MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
    120             12/10           50              10
  40/90/110         30/20           150             30


                                                 WOUND
MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
     16               5             40               8
    700             +5/+5           40               8
     40             +4/+4           30               6
