If you absolutely must know the DV of a spacecraft
weapon, treat it as a a standard weapon with a DV
multiplier of x3 for small craft (fighters and shuttles),
x5 for medium craft, and x10 for larger craft.

SPACECRAFT PROPULSION
The most important part of any spacecraft is its engine,
and the most important features of any engine are
the exhaust velocity, which determines how much
fuel the rocket requires to reach a given speed, and
the engine's thrust, which determines how high the
acceleration can be. Any rocket that has a thrust of
less than approximately twice the gravity of a planet
or moon cannot take off from that planet or moon.
Sample thrusts and gravities are listed on the Escaping
Gravity Wells table, p. 346.
   Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket (HO): Though opti-
mized with improved engine design and light-weight
materials, these are essentially the same primitive
rockets that humanity used to first reach the moon
in the 20th century. These are rarely used and only
common with groups too poor or primitive to safely
manufacture metallic hydrogen.
   Metallic Hydrogen Rocket (MH): Metallic hydro-
gen is a solid form of hydrogen created using exceed-
ingly high pressures. Although naturally unstable, it
can be stabilized with carefully controlled electrical
and magnetic fields, and these field generators are
an integral part of every metallic hydrogen fuel tank.
By selectively reducing these fields near the exhaust
nozzle, small amounts of metallic hydrogen can be
made to swiftly and explosively revert to conventional
hydrogen gas, propelling the rocket with great force


        ESCAPING GRAVITY WELLS
SPACECRAFT ENGINE                    THRUST (IN GS)
Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket                      4+
Metallic Hydrogen                            3
Plasma Rocket                              0.01
Fusion Rocket                              0.05
Anti-Matter                                 0.2
Rocket Buggy                                0.5
Planets, Moons, Etc.                     Gravity
Earth                                        1
Europa                                     0.13
Jupiter                                    2.53
Luna                                       0.17
Mars                                       0.38
Mercury                                    0.38
Neptune                                    1.14
Pluto                                      0.06
Saturn                                     0.91
Titan                                      0.14
Uranus                                     0.89
Venus                                       0.9
in an easily controlled fashion. Metallic hydrogen
engines are used in most planetary landers and short
range vehicles.
   Plasma Rocket (P): This drive heats hydrogen into
plasma and accelerates it using a powerful electrical
field. This type of rocket was very common in the
mid 21st century, but has been superseded by fusion
rockets and is only used in older and more primitive
spacecraft, notably scum barges.
   Fusion Rocket (F): Similar to a plasma rockets,
fusion rockets require significantly higher tempera-
tures and pressures, and the rocket also produces
large amounts of power for the spacecraft. Fusion
rockets are now the most common form of propul-
sion for spacecraft designed for long-distance voyages.
   Anti-Matter Rocket (AM): Anti-matter rockets
work mixing small amounts of anti-matter into the
hydrogen fuel, producing enormous amounts of
energy and an exceptionally fast and powerful ex-
haust. These rockets typically carry a heavily shielded
magnetically contained anti-matter storage vessel car-
rying a mass of anti-matter equal to 1% of the mass
of the hydrogen fuel used by the rocket. The magnetic
containment vessels needed to safely contain anti-
matter usually weight at least 10 times the mass of
the antimatter used.
   Though anti-matter storage is exceptionally safe,
the vast energy release possible if there was an ac-
cident means that anti-matter rockets are forbid-
den from coming closer than 25,000 km from any
inhabited planet or moon. Also, very few habitats
will allow an anti-matter rocket to dock with them,
and instead require the spacecraft to remain at least
10,000 km away and for all cargo and passengers to
be transferred using a small craft like a small LOTV.
Anti-matter is exceedingly expensive to produce and
so anti-matter rockets are only used in military vessels
and in fast couriers designed to carry critical cargoes
across the solar system in short periods of time.

SAMPLE SPACECRAFT
The following is a representative sample of the most
common type of spacecraft used in the solar system today.
   Bulk Carrier: This vessel is simply a standard
transport refitted to carry large amounts of cargo in
external cargo grapples. Used for carrying refined ores,
ice, and similar forms of large, useful, but low priority
cargos, bulk carriers transport large cargos at rela-
tively low velocities. They also offer an inexpensive,
reliable, and slow method for passengers to travel
from one habitat to another and are not infrequently
used by individuals who wish to disappear for a while.
Unlike the standard transport, the bulk carrier lacks
the rotating habitat pods.
   Courier: In a standard transport, a typical journey
from Luna to Mars requires approximately three
weeks, while a journey from Mars to Jupiter requires
approximately four months. This is sufficient for most
purposes, but occasionally characters need to take
themselves or sufficiently valuable cargoes across the
