that LLOTVs that use metallic hydrogen engines can
be easily converted between the high and low velocity
configurations, requiring less than a day in a well-
equipped maintenance facility. However, vessels using
hydrogen oxygen engines cannot be converted. Since
metallic hydrogen is a much more efficient propellant,
landers using it always include significant amounts of
extra propellant for emergencies.
   Scum Barge: These huge craft were originally de-
signed for use during the first stages of the evacuation
of Earth. They were built to carry up to 20,000 people
and to allow them to survive for months or even years,
in relatively cramped conditions, until more suitable
habitats could be constructed. A number of these ves-
sels are still in service, primarily used as mobile habi-
tats by various anarchic subcultures. The best have
had their plasma rockets replaced by modern fusion
rockets and carry 5-10,000 in relative comfort. The
worst use aging plasma rockets and stretch their life
support systems and living spaces to the limit, carry-
ing up to 25,000 poor and desperate residents.
   Small Lander and Orbit Transfer Vehicle (SLOTV):
This vehicle is identical in use and design to the
LLOTV, except that it is one third the total mass and
correspondingly less expensive to build and refuel.
Some exceptionally wealthy individuals own private
small LOTVs. Using a small LOTV with a hydrogen-
oxygen engine to take off and land on Venus or for
other high velocity uses is exceptionally cramped
and allows for absolutely no room for error. Like the
LLOTV, this vehicle can be easily converted between
low and high velocity configurations and is made in
both streamlined and non-streamlined versions.
   Standard Transport: This vessel is one of the most
common freighter and passenger vessel in the solar
system. While egocasting is by far the most common
form of inter-habitat transport, some people prefer to
travel by ship and others do not wish to leave their
current morph behind. In addition, some goods are
easier or cheaper to physically transport rather than
duplicating their templates. As a result, standard
transports regularly travel to and from every large
habitat and inhabited planet and moon in the solar
system. These are modern fusion-drive ships that offer
fast and comfortable travel for passengers as well as
relatively swift transport for small cargoes.
   One of the additional benefits of the standard
transport is the fact that it contains four separate pas-
senger compartments, each of which is mounted on
a 90 meter-long booms that can extend and rotate
to simulate gravity. When rotating at a comfortable 2
rpm, passengers experience Mars level gravity. Typi-
cally, the gravity maintained in these pods starts at
the local gravity (or Mars gravity, if the local gravity
is higher) and over the course of the journey gradually
increases or decreases to the gravity of the destination.
However, these pods cannot rotate to produce gravity
higher than that found on Mars.
