ME INFORMATION■GAME INFORMATIO



 INFORMATION
 SPOILER ALERT
 If you're a player and not a gamemaster, we strong
 secrets and other information that can ruin your enjoy
 it. Ok, maybe you're obsessive and you want to know
 after all. But really, do you read the last chapter of a
 the punchline before hearing the joke? Do you wait
 full spoilers before you go see it? Ok, maybe you do,
 in mind that some of the things here may change yo
 can swing that, though, and maybe you're a control
 retrospect, so we are we, so we can respect that. Kee
 are now able—and some may say obligated—to run th
 spoiler alerts.



    This chapter provides a wealth of information and
  tools that gamemaster will find useful for running
  Eclipse Phase campaigns.



  SECRETS THAT MATTER
  There are secrets woven all through the real history of
  the 21st century, and the present, and therefore all pros-
  pects for the future. These are the pieces of information
  that never make it into a habitat's mesh at all. Some of
  it is unknown to transhumanity. Some is known only
  to a select few transhumans who carefully ensure that
  it does not leak out of their control. Some is known to
  wider conspiracies, such as Firewall, but is kept out of
  the public eye for reasons of security and safety. These
  secrets can be dangerous to those who know them.
  Those who have stumbled across them have died for
  their knowledge, have erased their own memories (or
  had them erased by others), or have hidden themselves
  someplace other people never go, to avoid dealing with
  the consequences of such knowledge.
     The information provided in this section is available
  for characters to discover and, one way or another,
  to confront them, giving gamemasters the tools they
  need to provide their players with fresh challenges and
  opportunities. Every secret contains the possibility of
  great reward and of greater trouble, usually bundled
  together. Nothing here was just forgotten or lost out
  of carelessness. It was hidden by someone who wanted
  to keep it away from someone (or everyone) else.
  Every secret the characters learn inserts them into a
  new web of other people's complications—a potential
  source for drama and conflict in your campaign.

  EXTRATERRESTRIAL INTELLIGENCES
  The oldest star in the Milky Way galaxy is estimated
  to be 13.2 billion years old—almost as old as the
  universe itself. By contrast, life on Earth only evolved
  roughly 3.7 billion years ago, and the first archaic
■GAME INFORMATION■GAME INFORMA
                  GAME

                                                                12




recommend you skip this chapter, as it presents
 nt of the game. No, really, stop reading, we mean
 erything about the game—you did buy this book
ok first, so you know how it ends? Do you ask for
  a movie to come out and read the reviews with
d in that case, be our guest, read away. Just keep
perspective during game play. A good roleplayer
ak info-junkie that prefers to know it all. Hrm, in
  mind, however, that by reading this chapter, you
game for your friends who do happen to listen to
                                                 ■



   homo sapiens humans evolved approximately a mere
   400,000 years ago. Against the backdrop of the ga-
   lactic calendar, transhumans are nascent arrivals on
   the scene; newborns in every sense of the word. More
   importantly, transhumans are uninvited guests in what
   other, older intelligences think of as their assets.
         For years, humans scientists have struggled with
   the Fermi Paradox, which questions why no evidence
   of alien life has yet been found—such as spacecraft,
   transmissions or probes—despite the mathematical
   likelihood that a multitude of advanced extraterrestrial
   civilizations should exist in the Milky Way. One postu-
   lation says that there must be some sort of unknown
  “Great Filter”—an event that all intelligence encounters
   in its development that for whatever reason such life
   cannot surpass. In other words, an extinction event.
   Some worried that the development of dangerous
   technologies—nuclear weapons, nanotechnology, etc.—
   before a civilization had matured could be the Great
   Filter. Others worried that it could be a technological
   singularity event, such as the TITANs and the Fall.
         In fact, alien races do exist, and they have been
   around for far, far longer than transhumanity. New
   ones, however, are simply rare, as few have managed
   to elude destruction at the hands of the ETI.
         The ETI (extraterrestrial intelligence) is the civi-
   lization that dominates galactic life in Eclipse Phase.
  The ETI is incredibly old and powerful—a Type III or
   even Type IV civilization on the Kardashev scale. It is
   capable of megascale engineering projects and enjoys
   an understanding of physics, matter, energy, and uni-
   versal laws that makes all of transhuman knowledge
   seem insignificant in comparison. Most likely, the ETI
   itself evolved from some sort of artificial intelligence
   singularity event in its own past, ascending to a god-
   like level of super-intelligence. It may no longer be
   recognizably biological.
         This ETI has seeded the galaxy with a type of
   self-replicating probes known as bracewell probes.
