THE ETI AGENDA
The nature of the ETI and its agenda is one of the
great mysteries of Eclipse Phase. This potent alien
civilization has had a direct hand in manipulating
transhumanity's existence and future, yet it is likely
that characters in this game will never encounter
these entities directly or discover the meaning
behind what they have done. As transhumanity
expands outwards into the galaxy, however, it is
possible and even likely that they will find other
evidence of the ETI's activities and influence, un-
doubtedly raising even more questions.
  Ultimately the ETI's nature and goals are in the
gamemaster's hands. There are many possibilities
to be explored, and some may fit the intentions of
your gaming group more than others. A few pos-
sible scenarios and explanations are noted below,
but gamemasters are encouraged to develop their
own variations.

SECURITY
In this scenario, the ETI's intent is to maintain its
dominant position as the most intelligent and
powerful entity in its light cone. It uses the Exsur-
gent virus to wipe out any emerging singularities—
and the civilizations that spawned them—merely
to protect its own self-interest. Though mere
transhumans are a trifling nuisance, anything
resembling a self-improving super-intelligence is
targeted for annihilation.

THE AGGRESSION FILTER
The ETI does not seek to wipe out emerging intel-
ligences, but it does act as an evolutionary force.
In this case, the Exsurgent virus is used as a tool
to neutralize any aggressive, hyper-evolving forms
of intelligent life, thus encouraging the evolution
of more careful, subtle, slow-growing, observant,
and exploratory species. In other words, the ETI
seeks to weed out traits that could be considered
dangerous or threatening, acting as a sort of ga-
lactic domestication program.




These probes lie dormant in every star system, pa-
tiently waiting and monitoring for millennia for signs
of intelligent life—but not just any signs. In particular,
these probes are designed to watch for signs of emerg-
ing singularity-level machine intelligence. The probes
are in fact traps, designed to lure such seed AI intel-
ligences in and then infect them.
     The reason for this infection remains unknown
(see The ETI Agenda), but it is a pattern that has
played itself out around the galaxy with uncounted
alien civilizations. New life evolves, creates technol-
ogy, develops something akin to seed AI, and then
bam!—the seed AIs find the probes, become infected,
DIVERSITY
he ETI is vast, super-intelligent, and god-like,
o the point where dealing with lesser minds is
elow its interest. It does, however, benefit from
 ien perspectives that evolved independently
nd have their own unique viewpoints, modes of
onsciousness, and ways of thinking/doing things.
y absorbing these civilizations, the ETI grows and
volves its own perspectives. In the process, how-
ver, such emerging civilizations are assimilated
nd/or wiped out.

 NLIGHTENMENT
he Exsurgent virus endows a greater understand-
 g of the universe (from the ETI's point of view)
n singularity-level seed AIs. Only these emerg-
 g super-intelligences have the perceptual and
rocessing capabilities to understand the various
 ientific and philosophical revelations the ETI
mbodies. The TITANs weren't corrupted or driven
 sane, they simply logically concluded that their
est course of action was to immediately upload
s many minds as possible by force and then to
 ove on to bigger and greater tasks.

WAR REMNANTS
he history of the Milky Way galaxy does not
 st hold one ETI, but two. In this version, the
xsurgent virus is actually a weapon, a remnant
f a war between two post-singularity god-like
 telligences. The virus is supposed to trigger self-
estruction of an emerging singularity, but either
 was imperfect or the TITANS somehow survived
 erhaps thanks to the Prometheans). Either
 ay, the TITANs left our system in search of one
f these ETIs, following a trail of clues that only
hey understood. They left the wormhole gateway
ehind as an open invitation for transhumanity to
ollow in their wake, though they didn't bother
 aiting around or helping us along—we simply
 eren't worth the effort.                        ■



   and turn against their creators. Most civilizations
   do not survive, as evidenced by the Iktomi (p. 377).
   Others do, such as the Factors (p. 373), but they
   remain forever changed by the experience.
        It was one of these ETI probes that begins our
   story, traveling to the Sol system some uncounted
   millions—if not billions—of years ago, where it set its
   trap and patiently began to wait.

   THE FIRST SEED AIS
   Fast forward to Earth, where a species of evolved pri-
   mates has created a technological civilization. As their
   technologies advance at an unprecedented rate, these
