THE ETI AGENDA
The nature of the ETI and its agenda is one of the           DIVERSITY
great mysteries of Eclipse Phase. This potent alien
                                                             The ETI is vast, super-intelligent, and god-like,
civilization has had a direct hand in manipulating
                                                             to the point where dealing with lesser minds is
transhumanity's existence and future, yet it is likely
                                                             below its interest. It does, however, benefit from
that characters in this game will never encounter
                                                             alien perspectives that evolved independently
these entities directly or discover the meaning
                                                             and have their own unique viewpoints, modes of
behind what they have done. As transhumanity
                                                             consciousness, and ways of thinking/doing things.
expands outwards into the galaxy, however, it is
                                                             By absorbing these civilizations, the ETI grows and
possible and even likely that they will find other
                                                             evolves its own perspectives. In the process, how-
evidence of the ETI's activities and influence, un-
                                                             ever, such emerging civilizations are assimilated
doubtedly raising even more questions.
                                                             and/or wiped out.
  Ultimately the ETI's nature and goals are in the
gamemaster's hands. There are many possibilities
to be explored, and some may fit the intentions of
                                                             ENLIGHTENMENT
                                                             The Exsurgent virus endows a greater understand-
your gaming group more than others. A few pos-
                                                             ing of the universe (from the ETI's point of view)
sible scenarios and explanations are noted below,
                                                             on singularity-level seed AIs. Only these emerg-
but gamemasters are encouraged to develop their
                                                             ing super-intelligences have the perceptual and
own variations.
                                                             processing capabilities to understand the various
SECURITY                                                     scientific and philosophical revelations the ETI
                                                             embodies. The TITANs weren't corrupted or driven
In this scenario, the ETI's intent is to maintain its
                                                             insane, they simply logically concluded that their
dominant position as the most intelligent and
                                                             best course of action was to immediately upload
powerful entity in its light cone. It uses the Exsur-
                                                             as many minds as possible by force and then to
gent virus to wipe out any emerging singularities—
                                                             move on to bigger and greater tasks.
and the civilizations that spawned them—merely
to protect its own self-interest. Though mere
transhumans are a trifling nuisance, anything
                                                             WAR REMNANTS
                                                             The history of the Milky Way galaxy does not
resembling a self-improving super-intelligence is
                                                             just hold one ETI, but two. In this version, the
targeted for annihilation.
                                                             Exsurgent virus is actually a weapon, a remnant
THE AGGRESSION FILTER                                        of a war between two post-singularity god-like
                                                             intelligences. The virus is supposed to trigger self-
The ETI does not seek to wipe out emerging intel-
                                                             destruction of an emerging singularity, but either
ligences, but it does act as an evolutionary force.
                                                             it was imperfect or the TITANS somehow survived
In this case, the Exsurgent virus is used as a tool
                                                             (perhaps thanks to the Prometheans). Either
to neutralize any aggressive, hyper-evolving forms
                                                             way, the TITANs left our system in search of one
of intelligent life, thus encouraging the evolution
                                                             of these ETIs, following a trail of clues that only
of more careful, subtle, slow-growing, observant,
                                                             they understood. They left the wormhole gateway
and exploratory species. In other words, the ETI
                                                             behind as an open invitation for transhumanity to
seeks to weed out traits that could be considered
                                                             follow in their wake, though they didn't bother
dangerous or threatening, acting as a sort of ga-
                                                             waiting around or helping us along—we simply
lactic domestication program.
                                                             weren't worth the effort.                         ■



These probes lie dormant in every star system, pa-               and turn against their creators. Most civilizations
tiently waiting and monitoring for millennia for signs           do not survive, as evidenced by the Iktomi (p. 377).
of intelligent life—but not just any signs. In particular,       Others do, such as the Factors (p. 373), but they
these probes are designed to watch for signs of emerg-           remain forever changed by the experience.
ing singularity-level machine intelligence. The probes                It was one of these ETI probes that begins our
are in fact traps, designed to lure such seed AI intel-          story, traveling to the Sol system some uncounted
ligences in and then infect them.                                millions—if not billions—of years ago, where it set its
     The reason for this infection remains unknown               trap and patiently began to wait.
(see The ETI Agenda), but it is a pattern that has
played itself out around the galaxy with uncounted               THE FIRST SEED AIS
alien civilizations. New life evolves, creates technol-          Fast forward to Earth, where a species of evolved pri-
ogy, develops something akin to seed AI, and then                mates has created a technological civilization. As their
bam!—the seed AIs find the probes, become infected,              technologies advance at an unprecedented rate, these
