humans gain the ability to modify themselves, defeat
death, nanofabricate, uplift other species to sapience,
and even to create artificial digital life.
     Unknown to most of transhumanity, the TITANs
were not the first seed AIs. A group of pro-AI re-
searchers known as the Singularity Foundation (that
would later join with other groups to form Firewall in
the wake of the Fall) developed the first true seed AIs
years before the Fall. Having been heavily involved in
the creation of AI and AGIs for many years previously,
thanks in large part to their open source AI frame-
work software, the Singularity Foundation's goal was
to generate “friendly AI” by carefully designing AI
goal systems.
     These first seed AIs, known as Prometheans
(p. 381), were created in secret. Their progression
towards super-intelligence was more of a soft take-
off, increasing upwards in gradual increments. The
Singularity researchers hoped that these friendly AIs
would help counter the threat of any unfriendly AI
that developed, and so they were quietly nurtured in
secret labs, slowly but surely escalating in abilities.

THE TRUE HISTORY OF THE TITANS
The TITANs (Total Information Tactical Awareness
Networks) were a military netwar system brought
on-line by the United States Department of Defense.
One of the last major expenditures of this declining
nation, the TITANs were an advanced version of AGI
(artificial general intelligence) designed to be adaptive
and given self-improving capabilities to counteract
enemy network defenses.
      Contrary to public opinion, the TITANs did not
instigate the events that led to the Fall. In fact, only
a portion of the TITAN system was active before
the Fall, acting purely in a defensive capacity. When
hostilities broke out and a cascading chain of system
shocks engendered collapses and open conflicts, shak-
ing apart an already fragile societal structure, the full
extent of the TITAN systems were brought online.
Into this environment of conflict were the TITANs
born, their full capabilities unleashed, escalating into
a hard takeoff exponential growth towards super-
intelligence.
      The TITANs were careful at fi rst, and their
intentions were neither benevolent nor hostile, but
curious. As they improved and their self-awareness
swelled, the TITANs explored and gathered
knowledge, infiltrating human networks, following
humanity into space, and gaining an almost total
knowledge of human history and actions. These en-
tities also began secretly allocating resources (digital
and physical) for their own use, initiating “govern-
ment projects” that people assumed were legitimate
as they followed all proper protocols.

INFECTION
As the TITANs' capacity for knowledge exceeded
that which humanity could provide them, they began
looking outward from Earth, searching for signs of
other intelligence. They did not need to look far. Their
enhanced intelligence capabilities allowed them to
notice certain clues—extremely subtle and intricate
puzzles—that something about the solar system was
artificial or had been manipulated by an intelligent
mind. Retasking several drones to investigate this phe-
nomenon, they found a buried device of apparent alien
origin. During the TITANs' investigation and attempts
to access the device, they triggered and unleashed a
digital virus. Subtle, highly adaptive, and virulent, it
immediately began subsuming the TITANs, while
expanding its own knowledge of transhumanity.
     Later dubbed the Exsurgent virus by the Pro-
metheans, this virus transformed the TITANs and
coerced them towards its own will. Within a matter
of days the TITANs were reborn, reprogrammed with
a new purpose—a purpose that spelled doom for
transhumanity.

THE FALL
While history fully blames the TITANs for the
Fall, there are other factors that played their parts.
Human conflicts spurred the crisis, driven by global
inequalities in wealth and resources and an inability
to embrace emerging technologies in a mature and
enlightened manner. The TITANs, corrupted by alien
programming, stepped into this conflagration with
an unknown but devastating agenda. By the time
the presence and influence of the TITANs was fully
understood, there was little transhumanity could do
to stop them. Step by step, the TITANs increased their
intellect, power, and potential. They experimented
with new technologies and methodically took steps to
forcibly upload millions of human minds. Even when
the nature of the TITAN threat was fully understood,
transhuman factions refused to back down, continu-
ing to fight each other even as they each resisted the
TITANs. This refusal to stand united prevented tran-
shumanity from organizing a successful defense and
heightened our progress towards annihilation.
      Much of the devastation wrought to the Earth
and its populace—as well as on Mars, Luna, and in
space—was inflicted by transhumanity itself. Nuclear
strikes used against the TITANs killed millions and
ravaged an already weakened ecosphere. This dev-
astation was assisted by unfettered use of chemical
weapons. Biowar plagues and nanovirii tore through
vulnerable populations, indiscriminate in the deaths
and changes they inflicted. Bombs, missiles, orbital
mass drivers, and netwar attacks slew millions more
or destroyed critical infrastructure with just as lethal
consequences. These were crimes transhumans in-
flicted upon themselves.
      The TITANs played their role as well, of course,
unleashing AI-driven killing machines, unstoppable
self-replicating autonomous nanoswarms, computer
worms, and plagues of their own. They captured
entire cities in order to steal the minds of those within.
More insidiously, the Exsurgent virus did not con-
tain itself to infecting the TITANs. Infected TITANs
