created opportunities for the virus to spread among
multiple vectors: digital, biological, and nano. Using a
thorough understanding of transhuman biology and
its mental processes, derived from the looted vaults
of human knowledge, the virus was even applied
through a sensory input vector—the dreaded basilisk
hack (p. 364). Even more disturbing, however, was
what the virus did to those it infected, rewriting their
neural code to subvert them to its will and sometimes
physically transforming them into things that were
alien and monstrous.
     Ultimately, transhumanity lost this war, and the
survivors were forced to flee a planet that was already
ruined. Unknown to almost all, the Prometheans also
fought back against the TITANs. Through their ef-
forts, the Exsurgent virus was largely contained or at
least limited. Though the actions of the Prometheans
ultimately saved millions of lives—if not all of tran-
shumanity—in the end, they were also forced to fall
back and retreat, many of them having succumbed to
the Exsurgent virus or the TITANs.

AFTER THE FALL
Just when it seemed that transhumanity was on the
verge of extinction, the threat posed by the TITANs
suddenly diminished. They ceased waging active war-
fare and seemed to simply disappear. Though many of
their machines still prowled Earth, Luna, and Mars and
occasional outbreaks of nanovirii and other dangers
continued, to all intents and purposes they had simply
left. Many worried that they had quietly gone dormant,
or were secretly engaged on some major project that
would be the final blow against transhumanity. Others
voiced hope that they had somehow been defeated,
that they had fallen victim to some glitch or infighting.
With so many TITAN remnants making Earth a place
of great danger, however, no one was willing to risk
investigating too closely.
      Compounding the matter, a network of killsats was
laced in Earth orbit, enforcing an unvoiced interdiction
of Earth. No one claims responsibility for these satellite
defenses, though most suspect the Planetary Consor-
tium is responsible, despite their denials. Some think
that the killsats may have been a final measure put in
place by the TITANs, claiming Earth as theirs. No one
who knows the truth is saying. Most of transhumanity
was more than willing to embrace this quarantine of
their former homeworld, making it all the more easy to
forget the horrors that occurred there.
     It wasn't until the first Pandora Gate was
discovered, shortly after the Fall, that many people
were finally willing to believe that the TITANs were
indeed gone. Though there is no direct evidence that
the TITANs are responsible for these gates, the timing
seems too coincidental. Furthermore, the discovery
of what are believed to be TITAN relics on certain
exoplanets fuels this theory.
     Why the TITANs left—and where they went—is
a mystery left to the gamemaster to explore. This ex-
planation might in fact serve as the focus for an entire
campaign as Firewall operatives are sent on the trail
of transhumanity's elusive nemesis. The following are
a few sample concepts a gamemaster can use or build
on, as best fits their game:

 - The TITANs were in fact all destroyed, either
   due to infighting or by some mechanism of the
   Exsurgent virus.
 - The TITANs were actually beaten to a standstill
   by the Prometheans and retreated to recoup their
   forces … but they are marshaling their strength
   to return.
 - The TITANs left through the gates to find/join up
   with the ETI, leaving the gates behind so that tran-
   shumanity could follow when it was ready; perhaps
   to help, perhaps to finish the job of destruction.
 - The TITANs have been driven insane, either by
   the stress of accelerated intelligence growth or by
   the influence of the Exsurgent virus. Their actions
   are erratic, confused, and sometimes at odds with
