   each other. Though many TITANs have indeed
   left through the gates, they very well may return.
 - The TITANs are still around, simply well hidden.
   Outwardly they are dormant but inwardly they
   are engaged in a long period of circumspection
   and turmoil. Perhaps some of them are prepar-
   ing to ascend to another stage of intelligence, far
   beyond what even the TITANs are capable of. It
   is only a matter of time before this period ends
   and something gives.

FIREWALL
There cannot be another Fall—this is the mantra that
drives Firewall.
   Firewall is a secret, cross-faction organization dedi-
cated to safe-guarding transhumanity from existential
risks: aliens, weapons of mass destruction, hypercorp
experimentation, seed AIs, and so on. If anything
threatens transhumanity as a whole, Firewall is dedi-
cated to stopping that danger at any cost.
   The strength of Firewall rests in its members, known
as sentinels. Found in all factions and across all lo-
cales, sentinels are often diametrically opposed when
it comes to social, economic, and political ideologies,
to the point they might come to blows over their fer-
vent beliefs. Yet when the survival of transhumanity is
at stake, such extreme differences are set aside for the
greater good.

HISTORY
The origins of Firewall can be traced back to before
the Fall, to several key organizations: the Lifeboat In-
stitute, the JASONs, and the Singularity Foundation.
   A non-profit, non-governmental organization, the
Lifeboat Institute—founded in the opening years
of the 21st century—represented the first, concrete
attempts by citizens to recognize the dangers of un-
controlled technological development and to create
an international organization to safeguard humanity.
This institute developed several programs to research
and protect against so-called existential risks, from
asteroid strikes to pandemics—anything that might
wipe humanity out.
   The JASON Association, established in the mid
20th century, was an independent scientific advisory
board to the United States government. Though tied
to the MITRE Conglomerate—which, though a non-
profit organization, was still intrinsically linked to
the United States government—the scientists involved
with JASON were outside standard government over-
sight. Though they spurred numerous technological
developments for the government to deploy, they were
also one of the first internationally recognized groups
to predict global climate change. Prior to the Fall,
many members of the JASONs and their supporters
split away from the strict controls and reactionary
agendas of the hypercorps and various nation states
to form a new group, the Argonauts.
   The Singularity Foundation—formed at the dawn of
the 21st century—was dedicated to the creation of safe
artificial intelligence software, while raising awareness
of the benefits and dangers AIs represented. A fervent
believer in the singularity doctrine that technology
would move towards a single explosion of advance-
ments that would forever reshape humanity, the Singu-
larity Foundation was a strong advocate for creating
friendly AIs that would help protect humanity from an
uncontrolled, dangerous singularity event. This group
was significant in that it secretly succeeded in creating
a group of friendly seed AIs before the Fall. These Pro-
metheans were indispensable in protecting transhuman-
ity and countering the TITAN threat during the Fall.
   Despite the efforts of these and similar groups, the
most dire predictions of the outcome of a technologi-
cal singularity were fulfilled. Though each played a
part in the fight, transhumanity was ravaged and the
Earth all but ruined. Though ultimately all attempts
to prevent the Fall failed, untold numbers of transhu-
mans were saved from extinction through such efforts,
while valuable information concerning the TITANs
was gleaned.
   During the crucible of the Fall and its immediate
fallout, some of the surviving members of these and
other groups came together and began to pool their
resources. Acknowledging their weaknesses and the
fractured state of transhumanity, they undertook
drastic new measures, swearing to prevent another
catastrophe of misused technologies. These methods
would forge a new, powerful cross-faction secret soci-
ety known as Firewall.

ORGANIZATION
Firewall is a clandestine organization, with an un-
known number of members, coordinated by an inner
circle of dedicated veterans known as proxies. Though
its existence is known to many of the powerful and
influential factions and individuals throughout the
solar system, its existence is denied and its activities
kept carefully shrouded.

SENTINELS
Sentinels are the soldiers of Firewall, the reserve troops
called to instant active status whenever danger is per-
ceived. Regardless of their location or current affairs,
sentinels are expected to move instantly when called
into play. It is their own responsibility to cover their
absences from their “normal life” during each mission.
  There is no applying to join Firewall. Instead, Fire-
wall selects an individual for induction based upon
that person's skills, knowledge, occupation, security
clearance, location, status, and a host of other criteria.
While such selections usually originate from a proxy,
sentinels can exercise authority to bring new initiates
into the conspiracy as a mission demands—and they
often do. Any sentinel recruiting a new supporter,
however, becomes responsible for the new inductee
and their actions. If lines are crossed, both will bear
the brunt of the consequences.
  The vetting process for joining Firewall is neces-
sarily brutal, as sentinels are required to face harsh
