  opponents and make hard choices. If an individual
  agrees to accept the invitation, there is no turning
  back. Each inductee is submitted to a battery of trials
  and tests. While these vary, they may include deep
  background searches, fork interrogation, psycho-
  surgery trials, and tests of loyalty. Psychosurgery is
  performed not to program loyalty, but to analyze the
  recruit's responses to various situations—an extreme
  parameters test to see when a prospective sentinel
  will break. Many potential members are carefully
  analyzed by a Promethean with extreme expertise in
  character judgment and personality profiling. Those
  who don't pass such tests are killed in a manner that
  they must resort to an earlier backup or have their
  memories altered, so that they have no recollection of
  their brush with the group.
     Ultimately Firewall walks a fine line. The concept
  of dogmatic “unquestioned loyalty” is both anathema
  to everything Firewall stands and counterproductive.
  Its sentinels need to have the capacity for thinking
  outside of the box from mission to mission. At the
  same time, their ultimate goals are too important to
  risk—the survival of transhumanity depends on it—
  so some extreme measures must sometimes be taken
  to ensure the organization remains intact and secure.
     New sentinels are given a code name and fake
  identification. Outside of the proxies, the real-world
  identity of a given sentinel is a closely-guarded secret.
  Sentinels are even discouraged from sharing such in-
  formation with members of their own teams, though
  this line is often crossed. Additionally, each sentinel is
  required to upload a backup to Firewall's secure serv-
  ers. This backup serves a dual purpose, enabling all
  sentinels to be retrieved should they die, but also put-
  ting a copy of the sentinel in Firewall's hands should
  they ever need to interrogate them.
     Sentinels are all connected via the Eye, Firewall's
  peer-to-peer social network. Though each operates
  behind their assumed identity, they remain in contact,
  sharing information and resources as needed.



OPTIONAL RULE: I-REP
i-Rep tracks the reputation a sentinel earns through
their service to Firewall. i-Rep is used with Network-
ing: Firewall skill and tracked exactly like any other
Reputation score (p. 285). The important thing to
keep in mind, however, is that Firewall agents come
from all factions and are obligated to help each other,
especially when a situation demands it. To reflect this
extra advantage, gamemasters can choose to imple-
ment one or more of the following optional rules:
- Networking Plus: To reflect that Firewall has
  agents throughout transhumanity, a character
  may use any Networking skill field with their i-
  Rep. Favors bought with reputation still apply
  to the i-rep score, no matter what network they
  were acquired from.
   PROXIES
   Proxies are the inner circle of Firewall, the experienced
   cadre that keeps the machinery of their organiza-
   tion functioning. Though fewer in number than the
   sentinels, many proxies work full time on Firewall
   operations, serving as the group's essential infrastruc-
   ture. Most proxies are recruited from the ranks of the
   sentinels, brought in based on their skill sets and apti-
   tudes to fill key roles. In a few rare cases, new proxies
   are fast-tracked and recruited directly from outside
   of Firewall, usually based on their unique talents or
   placement within a certain organization, though such
   inductees face a battery of tests and trials far harsher
   than that used to vet sentinels.
      By default, proxies have a higher security clear-
   ance than most sentinels, and are far more in the
   know. This sometimes leads to resentment and hos-
   tilities, especially from sentinels who feel they are
   being kept in the dark or manipulated. While stan-
   dard proxy protocol is to adhere to a need-to-know
   maxim, it is sometimes necessary to bring sentinels
   more into the loop in order to defuse tensions. Of-
   tentimes, this precedes bringing such sentinels into
   the proxy framework.
      Some tension exists within Firewall, mostly due to
   the influence of so many anarchists and other libertar-
   ian autonomists who take a dim view of centralized
   power, lack of transparency, and the potential for se-
   cretive operations to become entrenched and authori-
   tarian. As a result, there is a strong internal culture
   that seeks to minimize hierarchies and the accumu-
   lation of power, promoting transparency and direct
   democratic decision-making. These desires sometimes
   clash with the clandestine nature of the organization,
   however, and the need for some secrets to be kept on
   a need-to-know basis.
      Unlike the loose organization of the sentinels, the
   proxies are grouped into servers, collective working
   groups based upon certain skill sets and tasks. To
   avoid creating power blocks within a given server,




Priority Call: When the chips are really down, a
 entinel can call on favors as a priority urgency.
 his “priority code” is reserved for favors that
are critical to a mission's success and which may
help save lives or stop a major threat. When the
priority code is invoked, the sentinel receives a
 30 modifier to their Networking Test and favors
are reduced by 2 levels. Sentinels know that pri-
ority codes are only to be used for emergency
 ituations, however, when there are no other
options. Abuse of priority codes is considered
a serious breach of etiquette and abuse of re-
 ources, usually involving the agent's removal
 rom Firewall.                                 ■
