personnel are required to rotate between servers
after one year of time. This incurs the added benefit
of proxies learning new skill sets and increasing their
usefulness to Firewall. The actions of each server are
kept as transparent as possible, with major decisions
brought to an e-vote before the entire proxy member-
ship. However, speed often requires servers or indi-
vidual proxies to move quicker than a vote will allow.
In all such instances, the proxies involved are held
accountable for those actions, reviewed by their peers
at a later time to see if any reprimands, punishments,
or commendations are required.
   It is important to note that there is no core leader-
ship structure among the proxies. No one person or
cabal is in charge, there is no authority held by one
proxy or another; all are peers. Though reputation
and experience play a factor, getting something done
often means convincing other proxies that it's the
right thing to do. The drawback to being a leader
or person with initiative within Firewall is that this
usually means you must follow through with such
tasks yourself. Luckily most proxies are dedicated
to Firewall's goals and so this DIY attitude prevails.
Despite these safeguards, however, rumors of power
blocks within Firewall (both within servers and
across the organization) exist. Many of these are
fueled by the alliances different cliques hold with
each other. Others, however, whisper that there is
a secret council among the proxies, working behind
the scenes and holding on to knowledge they aren't
sharing with the rest.
   Crows: Crows continue the goals of Firewall's
predecessor organizations, such as the Lifeboat In-
stitute and Singularity Foundation. Many of these
are argonauts, promoting the development and use
of new technologies that will benefit the transhuman
condition and minimize risks rather than creating
new threats or sparking new authoritarian uses—
and always conscious of unintended consequences.
Perhaps more importantly, crows actively engage
in background research of potential x-risk vectors,
whether those be aliens, the TITANs, terrorists, or
hypercorp activity. Often they will deploy sentinels
to aid in this research, via routers, whether this
means conducting surveillance or breaking and en-
tering to steal crucial data.
   Erasure Squads: Erasure squads are cleanup per-
sonnel. They are called into action if sentinels fail to
deal appropriately with a situation and the threat is
moving beyond control. If the watchword for a sen-
tinel is “unobtrusive,” the watchwords for an erasure
squad are “overmatched firepower.” If activated, the
time for a subtle solution is passed, and they will use
whatever means necessary to resolve the situation.
If that means nuking a settlement from orbit to an-
nihilate a nanoswarm and keep it from escaping to
a larger settlement, then so be it. After which they'll
use every trick in Firewall's bag to erase any evidence
