CLIQUES
Though Firewall proxies follow stringent guidelines
to ensure the organization is not subverted from
within or turned into a powerful organization
under the thumb of a few individuals with their
own personal agendas, the nature of transhuman-
ity ensures that various factions and tendencies
exist within the group. Termed cliques, these
circles of influence sometimes create ripples in the
pool that all Firewall personnel must eventually
deal with. Some of these cliques are grounded in
transhumanity's existing factions, while others are
rooted in philosophical differences regarding the
approach Firewall should be taking. Gamemasters
can use these cliques to flesh out internal tensions
within Firewall or to simply throw some curve balls
to keep players on their toes.
Backups: The backup clique believes that tran-
  shumanity's best chance for survival is to
  deploy numerous redundant backup measures
  as soon as possible. These include creating as
  many extrasolar colonies as possible, both via
  Pandora Gates and through more traditional
  means, such as ark ships and infomorph/nano-
  fabricator seed ships.
Conservatives: This clique takes an overcau-
 tious, nuke-it-from-orbit approach to most
 x-risks. They believed excessive force is justi-
 fied, and it's far better to be safe than extinct.
 This clique is also opposed to the use of alien/
 TITAN artifacts and psi, and tends to be xeno-
 phobic/isolationist regarding the Factors and
 Pandora Gates.
Mavericks: The mavericks disdain Firewall's col-
 lective and bureaucratic tendencies, taking a
 more individualistic approach to their work.
 They are known to sometimes circumvent
 Firewall procedures, taking risks and allocat-
 ing resources without approval from other
 proxies.
Pragmatists: The pragmatists believe in using
 any and all tools at their disposal to counter
 existential risks. They are in favor of using
 xeno-artifacts, asyncs, and anything else that
 will save transhumanity.
Structuralists: This clique advocates for a stron-
  ger structure and centralized authority within
  Firewall, countering the group's autonomist-
  dominated tendencies. Many also advocate
 for going legitimate, taking Firewall into
 the public eye and making above-board con-
  nections with other official organizations,
  arguing that this could bring more resources
 to Firewall's disposal.                        ■
they were there and to place the blame for the inci-
dent squarely on the shoulders of some other party.
If necessary, erasure squads can also be called in to
fix a sentinel op that has turned into a clusterfuck or
otherwise gone south. They are very careful to avoid
exposure in such situations, however, which some-
times merely means eliminating all traces of Firewall
involvement and letting the sentinels take the fall for
their poor choices.
   Routers: Routers are mission coordinators. They
work closely with scanners and crows, activating the
appropriate sentinels whenever a new danger rears up.
Each router has the authority to measure the threat
and activate an appropriate number of sentinels—
whatever is required to accomplish the mission in
the least intrusive manner possible. They are also
authorized to divert Firewall resources to aid these
missions, within appropriate parameters. Routers are
held responsible for the ultimate success of a mis-
sion. A failed mission will result in a reviewing board
staffed by their peers.
   Scanners: Tasked with keeping alert for any sign of
new active threats, scanners are the eyes and ears of
Firewall. The scanners maintain a close eye on news-
feeds and mesh traffic, even maintaining taps inside
certain government and hypercorp communication
channels. If a danger is detected, it is under their au-
thority, through routers, that sentinels are activated.
Due to the power inherent in a scanners' post, they
are held accountable for false activations.
   Social Engineers: Knick-named the Ministry of
Disinformation, social engineers provide the scape-
goating and plausible deniability that is required by
Firewall and its sentinels. If a sentinel compromises
their position and endangers the organization, social
engineers step in to cover cracks in the facade. They
work intrinsically with erasure squads when one is
activated to ensure the over-the-top steps taken to
eliminate a threat are well concealed and ultimately
erased. The power wielded by social engineers can be
significant, as it ultimately decides (usually through
e-voting consensus, though time does not always
allow such a luxury) what organization—political,
corporate, independent, etc.—will take the blame and
subsequent fallout for erasure squad actions.
   Vectors: Vectors are Firewall's communications se-
curity and digital intrusion specialists—in other words,
hackers. In addition to defending the mesh security
of all Firewall operations, vectors are also deployed
to aid in crow research, scanner monitoring, and to
eliminate the trail of erasure squads. Vectors also
assist routers in maintaining communications, com-
mand, and control of a situation, and are sometimes
called in to provide overwatch of sentinel operations,
especially if a particular sentinel squad lacks their
own hacking resources. Needless to say, vectors are
supplied with some of the best intrusion and security
tools transhumanity has to offer.
