METHODS
Unobtrusive—that is the standard operating pro-
cedure for any sentinel. Firewall's continued suc-
cess relies on its secrecy. The larger the footprint
it leaves during a given mission the easier it is for
other organizations to monitor Firewall's efforts or
even attempt to infiltrate the group. As such, Fire-
wall constantly works to expand its base of allies
(using assets from those ally organizations in place
of its own as much as possible), place long-term
moles, conduct remote operations (hacking in place
of on-site personnel), small group infiltrations (acti-
vating only as many sentinels as required to achieve
mission goals), and so on.
   When it comes to allies, Firewall often obfuscates
its real intentions and even its real identity. Often
such allies are gained through the use of well-placed
sentinels who act on behalf of their own non-
Firewall positions to gain access to another orga-
nization's resources. At the end of the day, however,
a slice of these resources are secretly set aside for
Firewall's future use. For example, a department
head at Starware may have spent years sealing a
deal to ship crucial spacecraft parts to the isola-
tionist Jovian Junta. The lucrative deal brings huge
prestige, a job promotion, and a salary increase, all
accomplishments the department head strives for in
his regular life. Yet this particular department head
is a long-standing sentinel, so such accomplish-
ments bring allies to Firewall, whether they know
it or not. Not only can the department head siphon
off a thin stream of revenue for Firewall use (hidden
thoroughly by vectors), but he's also in a position
to move sentinels, as needed, into the Jovian Junta
habitats (or personnel out), a job usually extremely
difficult to accomplish. The danger of such an act,
of course—and the consequences of losing such a
critically placed sentinel—means such a use of re-
sources is reserved for only the most dire threats.
   In additional to aid from ally organizations, Fire-
wall places caches of supplies on different habitats
and worlds, available to sentinels as needed. How
many and which sentinels are aware of which
caches depends wholly on the situation and on the
decisions of the router(s) involved. In a given habi-
tat, a cache may include weaponry and equipment
of escalating power, archived information, or even
relics stashed from previous missions until Firewall
decides what to do with them. Large habitats may
even feature several caches, with routers only re-
vealing the ones with heavy firepower when abso-
lutely needed. Some caches may be so dangerous,
however, that once a mission is complete, a router
will authorize the cortical stack destruction of all
sentinels involved, resleeving them to a backup that
has no knowledge of the cache's existence.
   As noted under erasure squads, Firewall will not
hesitate to react with swift and unequivocal force if
an unobtrusive approach has failed and the danger
  WHAT HELP CAN A
  SENTINEL EXPECT?
   Exactly what help Firewall provides to a senti-
   nel during a mission is wholly dependent upon
   the situation and the gamemaster. Generally
   speaking, Firewall's unobtrusive approach also
   applies to activated sentinels, meaning that
   sentinels are largely left to operate on their
   own accord. Beyond access to a cache of sup-
   plies—usually under-stated, forcing a sentinel
   to use their own resources if they want more—
   Firewall expects its sentinels to be capable of
   handling a situation. In addition to their skills
   and wits, sentinels can, of course, rely heavily
   on their i-rep to gain the resources and favors
   they need to achieve success.
      In some rare cases, the gamemaster may
   decide that a situation warrants more or less
   equipment in a cache or help from social engi-
   neers or vectors. Such intervention should be
   kept to a minimum, however, to lesson the
   players' feelings of Deus Ex Machina, ensuring
   the appropriate response of awe when such
   events do occur.
     The one thing for which Firewall can always
   be relied on is backup insurance. Any Firewall
   killed in the line of duty will be resleeved at
   Firewall's expense—though the morph used
   and whether the sentinel was backed up from
   their cortical stack or a backup (perhaps even
   an old backup) depends entirely on the circum-
   stances of death and their router's whim. Fire-
   wall usually makes an extra effort to retrieve
   cortical stacks, however, not in the least as they
   don't want their agents' backups falling into
   the wrong hands.
      Similarly, if a Firewall mission involves ego-
   casting or travel to another destination, Fire-
   wall will usually foot the bill. In many cases
   it is easier for sentinels to cover the expense
   themselves and bill Firewall later, but in times
   of need Firewall can be called on to handle
   such expenses directly.                         ■




 reaches a certain threat level. What constitutes a
“threat threshold” is actually calculated by special-
 ized risk assessment software and may change from
 mission to mission according to other external fac-
 tors. In some instances, if the situation is dangerous
 enough and the scale of the consequences of failure
 large enough, a Promethean will be tapped to cal-
 culate the threat level and decide when it is time to
 tactically withdrawal and “thermally cleanse.”
