LONG-TERM STRATEGIES AND GOALS
The overriding goals of Firewall are to prevent existen-
tial threats and protect transhumanity. However, that
is not their only goal. Their exact goals can and should
remain directed by the gamemaster as it applies to a
given playing group and a campaign. This can also
depend heavily on the particular cliques that a given
gamemaster is emphasizing (see Cliques, p. 359).
   The following is an easy-to-use selection of long-
term strategies and goals that a gamemaster can use
as desired:

 - Seeding other star systems
 - Going legit vs. staying clandestine
 - Development of stable seed AIs
 - Finding out where the TITANs went
 - Finding out what happened to the uploaded tran-
   shumans that the TITANs disappeared with
 - Figuring out the Factors
 - Making contact with other aliens
 - Finding out what happened to the Iktomi and
   other xeno-archeological oddities

FIREWALL AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
The level to which Firewall has infiltrated other orga-
nizations (and vice versa!) is intentionally left a blank
slate. Eclipse Phase is an active universe, with an on-
going storyline, so such details will be fleshed out and
updated as additional sourcebooks are published. Ad-
ditionally, gamemasters should determine the extent of
such infiltrations for their own games and campaigns,
as dictated by the plot and storyline the gamemaster
and players wish to tell.
  The following is a quick list of the most obvious
interactions.

 - Inner System: Almost all inner system factions
   consider Firewall to be an illegal, rogue operation,
   tainted by anarchists and undermining the very
   fabric of their society. Some hypercorps, however,
   believe they can infiltrate the organization and
   use it for their own ends, such as spying on and
   sabotaging other hypercorps and factions.
 - Jovian Republic: The Junta loathes Firewall and
   all it stands for and will use extreme measures to
   combat even the hint of Firewall activity within
   its sphere of influence.
 - Titanians: Most Titanians in-the-know are
   not necessarily opposed to Firewall's activi-
   ties, but believe the group should be reined in
   and legitimized.



THE ETI
As noted under Extraterrestrial Intelligences, p. 352,
the ETI is the advanced alien civilization responsible
for the Exsurgent virus (p. 362), and by extension,
the corruption of the TITANs and the Fall.
   HANDLING ALIENS
  Though only a handful of aliens have been intro
  duced to Eclipse Phase so far, gamemaster may
  wish to introduce their own. This is perfectly
  acceptable, though we strongly recommend
  that any and all alien life be portrayed as con
  vincingly alien. Life forms that have evolved in
  drastically different environmental circumstances
  from humans and that grew into intelligence by
  a different path should seem, at best, bizarre
  unusual, and weird. There is no guarantee that
  a xenomorph's thought processes or modes of
  thinking are in any way similar to transhuman
  ones, or even that their emotional responses
  (based on a completely different biology—if they
  have emotions, that is) are in the same ballpark
  Communication is likely to be a challenge, and
  misunderstandings are practically guaranteed. ■



   No one, not even the Factors, has encountered a
member (if such exists) of the ETI civilization so far.
Since it is an intelligence far beyond transhumanity, it
likely won't play much of a direct role within Eclipse
Phase, though those who learn the truth about the
Exsurgent virus and the Fall may rightly fear the
future. No one can even imagine what might happen
next, however, or know for certain that the ETI has
not set more “traps” similar to their bracewell probes
or if they have other messengers or servants active in
the galaxy. With things such as the Pandora Gates
at transhumanity's disposal, it may just be a matter
of time before transhuman explorers run afoul some
other aspect of the ETI's existence and activities.
   It is important to keep the nature of the ETI in
perspective. While transhumanity has managed
what it considers wonders with a small handful of
resources available from a few planets and other
objects in a bare handful of star systems, the ETI
has had an entire galaxy at its disposal for eons.
Engineering projects on a massive scale—dyson
spheres, matrioshka brains, Jupiter brains, stellar
engines—are within its capabilities. This ETI uses
star clusters as transhumanity uses fi elds or rich
mineral veins. Given its potential, the ETI likely
exists primarily on the galactic rim, far from the
galactic center, where lower temperatures and
scarcer matter make for a good thermodynamic en-
vironment. The powers in the deep cold dark on the
edge of the Milky Way have been self-aware since
before Earth was so much as a ripple in warming
gas around the not-yet-ignited Sun.
   Despite what those-in-the-know in the Eclipse
Phase universe may think, the ETI is not necessar-
ily hostile towards other races like transhumanity
(depending on its outlook; see p. 353), at least not
