in the way as transhumanity would define animos-
ity because of religious, ethnic, racial, or cultural
difference. Most likely the ETI is simply indifferent,
concerned with matters on scales on which trans-
humanity does not even register. Or it may think of
transhumanity like a living body might recognize an
infection or parasite—something the immune system
will suppress and deal with.

EXHUMANS
Exhumans are a faction within Eclipse Phase that
seeks to transcend the transhuman and become
posthuman. More to the point, exhumans seek to
perfect their physical and mental capabilities to ex-
treme levels, in search of some perfectionist ideal or
to become something higher-up on the evolutionary
ladder. Exactly what this is differs from exhuman to
exhuman, but there is generally some adherence to
Nietzschean philosophy and a goal to reach the pin-
nacle of the food chain. Some exhumans have trans-
formed themselves into what they consider to be an
ideal predator, or a creature that is extra-adaptable
and so best able to survive. Others radically modify
their own brains in order to drastically surpass
transhuman intelligence. Most are singularity seek-
ers, eager and willing to follow the breadcrumbs
left by the TITANs or other entities in the hope that
they will find the means of transcending transhu-
man limitations.
   Due to the use of numerous extreme, experimental,
and dangerous self-modifications, some exhumans
have done permanent damage to their psyches,
becoming insane, or perhaps just transferring their
mode of thinking into something that is no longer
recognizable as human. Some have also adopted an
antagonistic view of their former transhuman species,
viewing it as weak, decadent, and unworthy. This
has spurred some exhumans to actively attack and
ravage transhuman settlements and ships, though
usually in isolated areas.
  A few examples of exhumans are described below,
though gamemasters are encouraged to develop
their own.

NEURODES
Seeking to achieve a new level of super-intelligence
and conscience, neurodes have abandoned the typi-
cal transhuman sleeve in exchange for a multipedal
neuronal shell that is both body and brain at the same
time. The bulk of a neurode's body mass consists of
amorphic clusters of neuronal and epithelial cells, en-
closed in a hard carapace shell with four legs and two
manipulatory digits. The cerebral mass of neurode
brains gives them impressive calculation and other
mental capabilities far exceeding that of a normal
transhuman. Neurodes typically defend themselves
with swarms of teleoperated drones.
 COG     COO    INT    REF    SAV   SOM     WIL    MOX
  40      10     40     20     30    10     40      --

  INIT   SPD    LUC    TT      IR    DUR    WT     DR
  120     1      80    16     160     35     7     53
Skills: Fray 30, Investigation 80, Perception 90, others
  as appropriate
Implants: Access Jacks, Carapace Armor, Circadian
  Regulation, Direction Sense, Eidetic Memory, En-
  docrine Control, Hyper Linguist, Math Boost,
  Medichines, Multi-Tasking, Oracle, Skillware
Notes: Mental Disorder trait x 2

PREDATORS
Predators seek to transform themselves into an ulti-
mate top-of-the-food-chain evolutionary contender.
They pursue new avenues in genetic modification and
prototype implants, often using controversial methods
and technologies. The biochemical instabilities resulting
from these untested modifications and altered metabo-
lisms, however, often negatively impact their emotional
and mental stability. Pushing this even further, some
predators undergo experimental psychosurgery to
modify their consciousnesses in order to increase cun-
ning and ruthlessness, a procedure that often has other
negative side effects. A few predators take their surviv-
al-of-the-fittest ideology to an extreme, modifying their
digestive systems for a cannibalistic diet, and relishing
in the slaughter and feasting on of transhumans.
 COG     COO    INT    REF    SAV   SOM     WIL    MOX
  30      40     40     40     15    40     30      --

  INIT   SPD    LUC    TT      IR    DUR    WT     DR
  160     3      60    12     120     65    13     98
Skills: Blades 60, Fray 60, Free Fall 50, Freerunning 80,
  Investigation 50, Perception 60, Unarmed Combat 70
Implants: Adrenal Boost, Carapace Armor (11/11),
  Chameleon Skin, Cyberclaws, Drug Glands, Endo-
  crine Control, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Smell,
  Enhanced Vision, Grip Pads, Hardened Skeleton,
  Medichines, Muscle Augmentation, Neurachem
  (Rating 2), Oxygen Reserve, Poison Gland, Prehen-
  sile Feet, Prehensile Tail, Respirocytes, Temperature
  Tolerance, Toxin Filters, Vacuum Sealing, plus any
  other mods the gamemaster feels appropriate
Notes: Mental Disorder trait x 2



THE EXSURGENT VIRUS
Only very few people (or entities) who survived the
diaspora from Earth know of the true reasons and
the catalyst that culminated in the Fall. The alien Ex-
surgent virus—as those aware of its existence within
Firewall call it—set in place by the ETI to infect
emerging seed AIs, is something beyond transhuman-
ity's understanding; something far more complex
than just a computer virus. Though some strains of
the Exsurgent virus have been identified and various
types of infected exsurgents have been encountered,
it is widely assumed that these are creations of the
TITANs. Largely defeated and eradicated from off-
Earth transhuman networks thanks to the efforts of
