the Prometheans, occasional breakouts of the Exsur-
gent virus still occur, primarily due to scavengers or
others becoming infected when messing with old relics
from the Fall.

PLETHORA OF STRAINS
The Exsurgent virus is unlike anything that transhu-
manity has ever encountered so far. While it bears
similarities with both computer and biological virii in
regards to infection of hosts and propagation, it is not
bound by any limits of form or transmission vector.
   The Exsurgent virus is amazingly effective and
infectious. As an information virus, it is highly intel-
ligent and adaptive, able to mutate into new forms.
Much like certain virii are able to cross species
boundaries or change their vector from contact to
airborne, it is also a self-morphing omnivirus, ca-
pable of altering itself and its transmission vectors
to bypass infection safeguards. Like a retrovirus that
incorporates genetic information into the genome of
the target cell to subvert the cell to do its bidding, the
Exsurgent virus does the same but on a more com-
plex level. It is also known to rewrite a host's neural
code in a similar manner, in effect restructuring the
target's mind and personality.
   While it began as a digital computer virus—the
manner in which it infected the TITANs—it has trans-
formed to be communicable via at least three other
forms: biological nanovirus, nanoplague, and basilisk
hack. Each is described below, along with rules for
infection and defense.

BIOLOGICAL NANOVIRUS
Exploiting the infected TITANs' understanding of
Terran biology and their access to bio- and nanotech-
nology, the Exsurgent virus appeared in several biolog-
ical forms not long into the Fall. These virulent strains
infected biomorph transhumans and sometimes other
living creatures as well. The biological nanobots
spreading this strain act much like other biological
virii, though they radically modify the victim's bio-
logical and mental states. Some versions invade and
restructure the target's genetic code, transforming
them into the horrible abominations known as ex-
surgents (p. 369). While first-hand reports relate lurid
tales of victims metamorphing into hostile monsters,
such reports are rare and considered unreliable due to
the mental state of the witnesses (and any recordings
that can verify such claims have a strange habit of
disappearing). Other variants of this strain are known
only to alter the target's neural code, subverting them
to the will of the virus (and often, by extension, the
TITANs) and affecting their mental structure in order
to give them psi ability.

BIOLOGICAL INFECTION
Biological versions are spread much like other patho-
gens. People usually become infected by proximity to
another infected entity. Vectors may be dermal (touch-
ing someone with bio-nanobots excreted through the
skin), inhalation (breathing exhaled bio-nanobots),
injection, or oral (p. 317). Exsurgent bio-nanobots can
live outside of a body for extended periods, however,
so infection is possible merely by occupying the space
where an infected victim was hours or even days before.
   If a biomorph only has a chance of exposure to the
virus (e.g., they walk through a room in which they
might have breathed in exhaled bio-nanobots), have
them make a MOX x 10 Test (use their Moxie stat,
not their current Moxie score). Failure means they
were exposed. In other circumstances, however, expo-
sure may be automatic, such as extended touching of
or kissing an infected person.
   A biomorph exposed to this infection must make
a DUR x 2 Test to determine if the infection takes
hold. Basic bio-mods and nanophages do not offer
