any protection, though toxin filters (p. 305) and
medichines (p. 308) each give a +30 bonus (though it
is likely only a matter of time before a mutant Exsur-
gent strain learns to bypass them). If the test fails, the
victim is infected. See the strain descriptions (p. 366)
for specific details.
   Within 12 hours of being infected, biomorphs
become contagious to others. (Note that for the
Watts-Macleod strain, they only remain contagious
for 12 hours after that.)

DIGITAL VIRUS
Digital strains are purely information- or code-based
versions of the virus. They resemble typical computer
virii, worms, or trojans, spreading throughout the
mesh, exploiting holes, mimicking protocols, and
taking advantage of it like a skilled hacker.
   Digital versions of the Exsurgent virus are treated
as intelligent programs, using the same rules as info-
morphs (p. 264), with the following stats:
 COG     COO    INT    REF    SAV    SOM     WIL   MOX
  40      10     40     40     40     40     40     —

  INIT   SPD    LUC     TT     IR    DUR     WT     DR
  160     3      —      —      —      —      —      —
Skills: Hardware: Electronics 50, Infosec 70, Interfac-
  ing 60, Investigation 50, Perception 60, Program-
  ming 50
Software: Exploit, Firewall, Sniffer, Spoof, Track, plus
  any others the gamemaster considers appropriate

DIGITAL INFECTION
  As a matter of course, this Exsurgent virus will seek
to access any new systems it comes into contact with,
hacking in and copying a version of itself.

AI AND INFOMORPH SUBVERSION
   An Exsurgent virus may take a Complex Action to
initiate an “attack” against any other intelligent pro-
gram (AI, AGI, or infomorph) that is running on the
same system. If it encounters such programs as they
are accessing a system it is on, it will attempt to hack
their home system where they are running so as to
attack them directly.
   The attack is handled as an Opposed Test, each roll-
ing COG + INT. If the Exsurgent virus wins, the target
is infected and will be corrupted by the virus in 10
Action Turns, minus 1 turn per 10 full points of MoS.
If the target succeeded but rolled lower than the virus,
they are aware that they are slowly being taken over.
This immediately causes them 1d10 points of mental
stress. An infected program has only one option for
defending itself before the virus takes over—shutdown
and reboot. It takes the AI or infomorph 1 full Action
Turn to shut down. Restarting takes 3 full Action Turns
(possibly longer if the gamemaster so decides), upon
which the AI or infomorph must make another Op-
posed COG + INT Test against the virus. If this test also
fails, then the virus has already embedded itself in the
AI or infomorph's code and will continue its infection.
   One the infection is complete, the AI/infomorph
becomes an Exsurgent NPC.
CYBERBRAIN HACKING
Exsurgent virii that manage to infiltrate the cyber-
brains of pods and synthmorphs may also target the
digital egos within, using the same rules as given for
AI and infomorph subversion above. Alternately, the
virus may conduct a traditional brainhacking attack,
as noted on p. 261, or unleash a basilisk hack.

NANOPLAGUE
While the abundance of nanotechnology has been a
blessing for transhumanity's journey to the stars, it has
also been a curse. Via the TITANs and mesh-connected
nanofabrication machines, the Exsurgent virus manu-
factured nanobot swarms equipped with variants of
the virus. These nanobot plagues are capable of target-
ing all types of morphs and sometimes other machin-
ery as well. Unlike the biological nanovirus, which uses
biological mechanisms to rewrite biological/neural
structures, these nanoplagues physically restructure
both people and things at the molecular level.

NANOPLAGUE INFECTION
Exsurgent nanoswarms follow all of the rules given
for nanoswarms on p. 328. Unlike transhuman
nanoswarms, though, Exsurgent nanoplagues may
penetrate a biomorph internally, affecting the body
within as well as without.
  Any morph that comes into contact with a nano-
plague is considered infected. The only defenses are
guardian nanobots and nanophages (which work the
same as guardian nanobots in this situation), though
these are less effective against Exsurgent nanobots,
inflicting –2 damage to the swarm each Action Turn.
Some Exsurgent nanoplagues have developed coun-
termeasures against such systems, inflicting (1d10 ÷ 2,
round up) damage to such defenses each Action Turn.
Note that nanoplague-infected characters are gener-
ally not contagious themselves ... usually.
   See the strain descriptions (p. 366) for specific in-
fection details.

BASILISK HACKS
Thanks to the vast databanks of knowledge the TITANs
had absorbed from transhumanity, the Exsurgent virus
was able to thoroughly analyze the biology and func-
tioning of transhuman minds. In a few short months, by
accessing all of the research at their disposal, the Exsur-
gent and TITAN minds made several cognitive leaps in
their understanding of transhuman brain functions—
breakthroughs that will take transhumanity decades to
reach. One of these discoveries was a method of apply-
ing sensory input as a weapon, exploiting weaknesses
in the brain's neuro-cerebral wiring.
   Known as “basilisk hacks,” these attacks take
advantage of the way biological transhuman brains
interpret and process sensory input in the cerebral
cortex. Just as epileptics are susceptible to visualiza-
tions that strobe at certain frequencies, basilisk hacks
employ special visual and auditory patterns that trig-
ger glitches in the brain's neuronal wiring to inflict
