nausea, vertigo, disorientation, and even seizures,
often mistaken as a stroke or cerebrovascular incident.
Some basilisk hacks go farther than simply causing
the brain to seize up and crash, however, enabling a
mechanism to rewrite the neural code in victims who
view or listen to the wrong thing. This unknown re-
programming mechanism enables the virus to infect
even a biological brain with one of its strains. Similar
attacks are used against both synthmorphs and pods,
taking advantage of the methods in which cyberbrains
mimic biological minds with a virtual brain state, and
thus also manipulating them via the information en-
coded in sensory input.
   In a nutshell, basilisk hacks are a way of hacking
transhuman brains merely by feeding them a specific
sample of sensory input, usually images or sounds.
The widespread use of augmented reality makes
deployment of such hacks an easy manner; the Ex-
surgent virus just hacks into the target's ecto or mesh
inserts and engages the sensory feed. More traditional
methods may also be used, including standard interac-
tive video, holograms, audio, subsonics, or even VR.
   Since so many records of the years surrounding
the Fall were lost, most people do not know if the
basilisk hack is anything other than a legend. Various
official groups know that this technology was, in fact,
used by the TITANs, but they keep this knowledge to
themselves, in large part to help reduce the number of
people attempting to duplicate it.

INCAPACITATING INPUTS
When a character experiences a basilisk hack, they
must make a COG + INT + SAV Test. If this test
fails, their brain is susceptible to the hack, and they
immediately suffer 1d10 mental stress. Additionally,
one of the following effects applies. The duration for
each effect listed below is 1 minute plus 1 additional
minute per 10 full points of MoF. Each effect is also
numbered 1–10, in case the gamemaster wants to roll
1d10 and randomize the effects rather than choose:

 - (1) Cataplexy: The victim loses control of their
   body and immediately collapses. For the duration
   their body will be non-responsive but they will
   be aware and capable of mental actions. Mesh
   actions and implant controls are also disabled,
   however.
 - (2) Catatonic Stupor: The character becomes
   immobile and non-responsive. Though conscious,
   they are mentally “not there”—the basilisk hack
   has effectively crashed their brain functions. They
   will do absolutely nothing for the duration and
   will not respond even if moved or attacked.
 - (3) Disorientation: The character becomes disori-
   ented and severely confused. They are incapable
   of making decisions, understanding communica-
   tion, understanding what is going on around
   them, or acting in any sort of determined way for
   the duration.
  - (4–5) Grand Mal Seizures: The subject immedi-
    ately falls to the ground and begins convulsing,
    suffering 1d10 damage. They may do nothing
    else for the duration and will suffer an equal
    duration period of confusion and weakness (–30
    to all actions) afterwards.
  - (6–7) Hallucinations: The character immediately
    goes off on a mental trip, leaving them completely
    disconnected from reality and their physical body.
    For the duration, the character should only re-
    spond to the hallucinated reality the gamemaster
    describes to them, or else the character should be
    treated as an NPC, run by the gamemaster.
  - (8) Impaired Cognition: The character's mental
    capabilities bottom out, turning them into a
    disabled vegetable. COG, INT, SAV, and WIL all
    drop to 1, and the character should act accord-
    ingly to environmental stimuli.
  - (9) Nausea/Vertigo: The character is overcome
    with head-spinning and vomiting and is effec-
    tively incapacitated for the duration.
  - (10) Sleep: The character passes out for the
    duration and cannot be woken short of medical
    intervention.

  In rare cases, a character may be able to “dodge”
a basilisk hack they know is coming, assuming they
have some sort of warning (such as their buddy fall-
ing prey to it moments before). The character must of
course be aware of what basilisk hacks are to even
consider this idea. If they immediately attempt to take
action to block out the sensory input when it strikes—
closing their eyes, plugging their ears, turning off their
AR, etc.—allow them a REF x 3 Test to see if they do
so in time.

SENSORY REPROGRAMMING
In some cases, the Exsurgent virus can actually repro-
gram the target's mind via dedicated sensory input.
This is a trickier affair, however, requiring uninterrupt-
ed programming time. As with incapacitating inputs,
the target character(s) experiencing the basilisk hack
must make a COG + INT + SAV Test. If this fails, they
become catatonic and paralyzed for a period of 10
minutes, minus 1 minute per 10 full points of MoF. At
the end of this period, they are mentally reprogrammed
and “infected” with one of the strains of the Exsurgent
virus (see below). For the duration of this period, the
character is undergoing reprogramming as long as they
remain exposed to the basilisk hack. If the character is
somehow cut off through the actions of another party,
the reprogramming immediately fails. In this case,
however, the victim still suffers 1d10 mental stress
+ 1 per minute they were exposed, and they remain
mentally shaken, suffering a –30 modifier to all actions.
This modifier reduces at the rate of 10 per minute.

YGBM ATTACKS
Rather than completely reprogramming a victim, some
Exsurgent attacks simply intend to plant subconscious
