commands in the target's mind, similar to posthyp-
notic suggestions. Nicknamed “You gotta believe me”
attacks, YGBMs are a sort of remote digital brain-
washing attempt used to create sleeper terrorists and
unknowing collaborators, often by targeting them via
the mesh. Unlike the mind manipulation techniques
of psychosurgery (p. 229), YGBM attacks use shotgun
techniques to open the mind, utilizing some kind of
backdoor the Exsurgents discovered in the transhu-
man brain, and altering the mind by brute force.
  A character experiencing a YGBM basilisk hack
must make a COG + INT + SAV Test. If this fails, a
single suggestion is implanted in the character's mind,
without their knowledge. This subliminal command
will be triggered at some later point, either at some
predesignated time or according to certain pre-set
conditions. Once triggered, the character will carry
out the action with all of the conviction that it is their
own idea. The implanted suggestion may be something
as simple as “kill the Firewall agent” to something as
complex as “manufacture an explosive device and
plant it in the cargo hold of any ship heading to Mars,
set to explode one day after they disembark.”
   Since YGBM attacks are not intended to completely
convert the target, but instead to simply convert them
into a temporary tool or weapon, implanted com-
mands are not designed to last long. The duration
the suggestion will last equals 3 days +1 day per 10
points of MoF on the resistance test. If the command
has not been triggered by this point, it dissipates, and
the character is none the wiser.

RECORDING BASILISK HACKS
Enterprising characters may seek to record a basilisk
hack input for their own uses. While basilisk hacks may
be recorded like any other sensory input, keep in mind
that the Exsurgents and TITANs likely take measures
to keep such tools out of the hands of transhumanity,
lest they construct some sort of defense. Basilisk hack
sources may be self-erasing or contain coding or coun-
termeasures that would hinder recording, such as white
noise to defeat audio recording or lens-blinding flashes
to defeat video recording. Conversely, basilisk hacks are
considered extremely dangerous by almost all factions
of transhumanity and universally feared. An individual
or group known to possess them is likely to be treated
much like a terrorist with a suitcase nuke. Though
Firewall has a standard interest in evaluating and en-
abling some sort of defense against basilisk hacks, most
Firewall personnel consider it foolish to handle such
toys and would rather destroy such recordings outright.

EXSURGENT STRAINS
Four variants of the Exsurgent virus are described
here—gamemasters are encouraged to develop their
own to keep players on their toes.

HAUNTING VIRUS
This strain is the most insidious of the Exsurgent virii.
Over time, it rewrites the target's personality and
motivations, slowly but surely subverting and taking
control of the victim's mind. At first the character is
unlikely to even be aware of the infection, and as it
progresses the changes the virus makes to the target
will at first seem natural to the target, as if some new
aspect of their personality was simply manifesting
itself. As the effects grow more pronounced, however,
the victim becomes aware that they are being methodi-
cally altered but is in most cases unable to act against
it. In the end, they are completely transformed into a
pawn of the ETI. Their mind is no longer transhuman,
but alien.
   The exact rate of progression is up to the gamemas-
ter, though guidelines are provided below. Each victim
is affected differently, so the process may be accelerated
or slowed down as the gamemaster sees fit.
