 - Stage 1 (initial infection to 3 months): Upon ini-
   tial infection, the character suffers 1d10 mental
   stress and gains the Psi trait (p. 147) at Level 1
   (also meaning they pick up the Mental Disorder
   trait, as noted on p. 150). They also gain one free
   psi-chi sleight, chosen randomly or by the game-
   master. If a player character has become infected,
   they may still be played as normal (see Roleplay-
   ing Exsurgents, p. 368), and may purchase new
   psi-chi sleights with Rez Points. NPCs acquire 1
   new sleight per 2–4 weeks.
   At this stage, the infection is usually hidden,
   though the character will suffer from occasional
   haunting effects (see below). As each week passes,
   the character's personality should shift a minute
   amount, slowly becoming more callous and con-
   niving and changing in other ways as well. If
   possible, the player should be kept in the dark
   about what is happening, but the gamemaster
   should provide them with roleplaying advice to
   reflect their condition. Likewise, the discovery
   and initial use of psi sleights should be played
   out, providing some interesting roleplaying op-
   portunities. Characters and players who know of
   the Exsurgent virus and Watts-Macleod strains
   should not know at this point which strain they
   are infected with—make them sweat.
 - Stage 2 (3 months to 6 months): The target suf-
   fers another 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) mental stress
   and acquires the Psi trait at Level 2 (also pick-
   ing up another disorder). Player characters may
   still be played as normal and may purchase psi-
   gamma slights with Rez Points. NPCs acquire 1
   new sleight per 2–4 weeks.
   Once three months have passed, the character
   should be aware they are under the influence
   of something, but this awareness likely comes
   too late. Haunting effects (below) should occur
   regularly. At this point a character is likely to
   consider offing themselves and resorting to an
   uninfected backup, seeking help, or actively en-
   couraging others to interfere. The infection will
   actively block and hinder such thoughts and ac-
   tions, however. To actively overcome this mental
   control, the character must succeed in a WIL Test.
   At the gamemaster's discretion, failure may result
   in 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) mental stress as the char-
   acter realizes they are no longer fully in control
   of their own thoughts and actions.
 - Stage 3 (6 months+): The victim suffers another
   1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) mental stress and acquires
   the Psi trait at Level 3 (see below). The character
   is now considered an exsurgent and becomes
   an NPC. It may no longer be played as a player
   character. The victim also gains a permanent
   +5 bonus to COG and WIL and acquires 1 new
   sleight every 1–2 months.

  As noted above, characters infected with this strain
suffer from different haunting effects—changes
to their personality or mind-state. A few ideas for
haunting effects are noted here, but gamemasters are
encouraged to be creative when inventing their own
to apply:

  - Altered Perceptions: The victim's perceptions are
    changed in disturbing and unusual ways. They
    may see things that aren't there, feel a presence
    behind or watching them, inexplicably smell
    blood, hear voices, suffer synaesthesia, or sud-
    denly perceive the people around them as nothing
    but outlandish, blabbering sacks of meat.
  - Behavioral Modification: Treat as behavioral con-
    trol or personality editing psychosurgery (p. 231).
    This is typically applied to shape the character
    closer to being a pawn of the ETI.
  - Dream Manipulation: The character's dreams
    become lucid, weird, and surreal. They may find
    themselves dreaming of life as an alien on some
    exotic exoplanet, as a robotic probe soaring
    through the vast emptiness of space, or fantasiz-
    ing different methods of inflicting mass destruc-
    tion and death.
  - Emotional Manipulation: Treat as emotional
    control psychosurgery (p. 231).
  - Inexplicable Urges: The character will be flushed
    with strange alien urges and may sometimes find
    themselves doing highly unusual things without
    realizing at all they are doing it. These may in-
    clude taking devices apart to understand how
    they work, testing the limits on programming a
    nanofabricator, cutting a living thing apart to see
    how it is put together biologically, testing weap-
    ons, eating things that are only barely edible, pro-
    miscuous and unusual sexual activity, lying just
    to see what they can get away with, and so on.

MINDSTEALER VIRUS
Very similar to the haunting virus, the mindstealer
 strain is much quicker acting. Instead of slowly sub-
verting the target's mind over the course of months,
the mindstealer virus rapidly recodes the victim's brain
in a matter of minutes. This infection is much more
invasive and brute-force, often causing significant
 side effects to the target's mental state as a result. This
 strain is only spread as a digital virus, nanoplague, or
basilisk hack (not as a biological nanovirus).
    Once the victim is infected, it takes the virus a
number of Action Turns equal to COG + INT + SAV
to completely take over their mind (20 Action Turns
= 1 minute). During this time, the target is actively
aware that their mind is under attack and undergo-
ing massive changes against their will. This process
is confusing, frightening, and painful, inflicting a
–30 modifier to all of the character's actions for the
duration. Many victims are reduced to whimpering,
drooling, or convulsing for the duration.
   This mental transformation inflicts 2d10 mental
 stress to the target. Once complete, the victim is an
 exsurgent NPC, under the gamemaster's control.
