WATTS-MACLEOD VIRUS
The Watts-Macleod strain is a strangely benevolent
version of the Exsurgent virus, seeming to imbue its
victims with psi abilities without any of the other
transformative elements typical of other strains.
Perhaps created as an accidental mutation of the Ex-
surgent virus, there are many who wonder if the true
detrimental effects of this strain simply have yet to
reveal themselves.
  As noted in the Mind Hacks chapter section on Psi
(p. 220), characters infected with this strain gain the
Psi trait (p. 147) at either Level 1 or 2. If a character
is so infected during game play, this trait must be
purchased with Rez Points (if the character does not
have any points currently available, they pay out of
the points they earn until the debt is paid off). All of
the other side effects of Watts-Macleod infection (p.
367) also apply.
   Though infection with this strain does apply some
benefits to the character, the gamemaster should make
sure to play up the creepy and unsettling nature of
this virus. The character should never be certain that
they haven't in fact been subtly influenced by the virus
in ways they can't immediately pinpoint—they should
always feel like the ax may fall at any moment.

XENOMORPH VIRUS
The xenomorph strain transforms the target's body
in addition to their mind. Over time, the victims
morph physically transmogrifies into some sort
of alien life form. It is only spread as a biological
nanovirus or nanoplague (not as a digital virus or
basilisk hack). Different variants of this strain pro-
duce different alien forms. It is not known where
these different alien templates originated, meaning
they may be copies of (once) existing alien species
or simply neogenetic creatures created from scratch.
The one trait they have in common is that they are
universally dangerous. Some speculation in Firewall
circles suggests that the Exsurgent virus may in fact
have a “library” of creature types to deploy, under
the assumption that at least some will be more effec-
tive than others for exterminating whatever victim
species they are fielded against.
   This strain follows the same rules as the haunting
virus (above), but with the following changes. The
timeframe is typically much quicker, though the game-
master may adjust this as they see fit.
   Stage 1: The effects from Stage 1 of the haunting
virus apply. Additionally, the character begins to suffer
minor physical changes that are definitely unusual but
are not impeding in any way and are easily hidden
from others. Example biomorph alterations might be:
unusual hair or fibrous growth, some skin discolor-
ation or translucence, severe rashes, dermal thicken-
ing, weakened or enhanced sensory organs, strong
body odor, hair loss, teeth gain or loss, vestigial tail or
other limb growth, minor dietary changes, and so on.
Synthmorphs might experience minor system glitches,
malfunctioning or improved components, and spots
of material stress or transfiguration. Gamemasters
are encouraged to be creative. This stage typically
lasts from initial infection to 1 week for biological
nanovirus strains, or from infection to just 1 hour for
nanoplague strains.
   Stage 2: As with haunting virus Stage 2, plus the
character begins to seriously transmogrify in ways
that are diffi cult to hide from others, becoming
more and more monstrous as the stage progresses.
Example biomorph transformations include: grow-
ing scales or feathers, partial modification of limb
structure, partial new limb growth, vestigial sensory
organ growth, sensory loss, extension of claws or
spines, severe dietary changes, etc. Synthmorphs
might experience radical system and shape altera-
tions, limited or enhanced sensor functions, or even
conversion of their robotic shell to smart materials.
These physical changes weaken the victim, inflicting
1d10 physical damage. This stage typically lasts 1
week for biological nanovirus strains or just 1 hour
for nanoplague strains.
   Stage 3: As with haunting virus Stage 3, a character
reaching this stage becomes an NPC. Additionally,
the victim completely undergoes a transformation
into some sort of creature that is no longer even re-
motely human. Example exsurgents of this nature are
detailed on p. 369.

USING THE EXSURGENT VIRUS
The frightening thing about the Exsurgent virus is
its adaptability. It was written by a near omnipotent
ETI with the intent of corrupting any alien seed AIs
or similar singularities it encountered, and it is very
good at it. This means it has the capability to ana-
lyze, understand, and mimic almost any alien digital
protocols and communication methods it comes into
contact with, no matter how diverse the alien mindset
that constructed what it encounters. It then has a cun-
ning ability to circumvent any safeguards and infect
such systems. From there, it rapidly assimilates any
data it can about the target species/civilization and
does it best to mutate into other forms that can attack
this target from other vectors.
   Given its constant morphing nature then, the Ex-
surgent virus is likely to continue to mutate in new
and interesting ways. Some of these mutations may
be effective, many not. This does, however, afford the
gamemaster an opportunity to invent new variants of
their own to deploy against unsuspecting characters.

ROLEPLAYING EXSURGENTS
The primary thing for gamemasters to keep in mind
when roleplaying entities that have been taken over
by the Exsurgent virus is that exsurgents are follow-
ing an alien agenda. The specific goals and actions of
each exsurgent may differ, but they are generally con-
cerned with two things: spreading the Exsurgent virus
and destroying anything that isn't affected. In some
cases, this may mean immediate and enraged hostile
action against anything non-exsurgent around them.
