In others, the exsurgent approach is more methodi-
cal, hatching long-term plots to infiltrate positions of
power and authority, setting the stage for acts of mass
destruction, and so on. In other words, they may be
handled both as hostile monsters or as nefarious long-
term opponents that are subverting transhumanity
from within or hatching complicated plots that could
mean devastation on a planetary scale.
   If the gamemaster wishes, exsurgents may also
pursue other goals, tangential to the ones above.
These may range from accumulating knowledge and
expertise on how transhumanity functions as a spe-
cies to forcibly uploading mass numbers of minds to
more esoteric goals such as manufacturing a halfnium
bomb or converting the solar system's mass to compu-
tronium. The Exsurgent virus is potent and intelligent,
and while its methods and goals may sometimes be
opaque to transhumanity, it acts with direction and
purpose. There may also be occasions, however, likely
due to the mutating and morphing aspect of the virus
and the way in which it transforms transhuman
minds, perhaps not always in the manner intended,
where the exsurgent goals become strange or simply
horrific, such as running experiments on transhuman
responses to extreme conditions or converting an
entire colony to cannibalism.

EXSURGENT-INFECTED PCS
It is possible for player characters infected with some
strains of the Exsurgent virus to continue on under
their own volition, even as the virus slowly consumes
them. This process is, quite naturally, horrifying in the
extreme, though there is little they can do about it.
Despite the best efforts of transhuman science, there
is very little that can be done to save an infected
person—the virus is simply too potent and adaptive.
As a result, standard Firewall policy is to terminate
the infected with extreme prejudice. Most Firewall
operatives are going to be aware of this, a fact which
pushes some of those who become infected to keep
their status a secret from their comrades.
   Both the haunting and xenomorph strains usually
transform a subject over time, meaning that the
character may initially not be aware of the infection.
This is a prime opportunity for the gamemaster to
mess with the character ruthlessly, starting slowly
with little haunting effects and building up as the
infection progresses. The character should slowly
become aware that they are under the influence of
something—something intelligent. Characters aware
of the Exsurgent virus and its effects will likely pick
up on this sooner, but the virus may prevent them
from doing anything about it. In effect, the character
becomes a prisoner within their own body, a body
they now share with a cold and malevolent pres-
ence that is methodically taking them over. Such
characters may respond in a number of ways de-
pending on their personality, ranging from despair,
withdrawal, and suicidal tendencies to complete
hysteria or calm acceptance. Most importantly,
however, their personality should begin to change
as the virus continues to transform them. Players
should be encouraged to take on new demeanors
and motivations, refl ecting the alien component
of their changing personality, with some guidance
from the gamemaster. This presents some intrigu-
ing roleplaying opportunities that the players will
hopefully embrace. If the gamemaster feels that the
player is not adequately representing the changing
mindset, however, the transformation can simply
be accelerated and the character converted into a
gamemaster-operated NPC.

EXSURGENTS
A few examples of exsurgents created from tran-
shumans transformed by the xenomorph strain of
the virus are noted below. As always, gamemasters
are encouraged to develop their own, using these as
guidelines. Unless otherwise noted, exsurgents use the
stats and skills of the transformed character. Each ex-
surgent detailed below first lists the aptitude modifiers
applied to transformed characters, then gives example
aptitude/skill ratings for NPC exsurgents.
  Note that simply encountering transformed exsur-
gents is stressful to the minds of many transhumans.
At the gamemaster's discretion, such encounters may
inflict 1d10 + 3 mental stress (p. 215).

CREEPERS (SYNTHMORPHS)
Perhaps the most disturbing exsurgent variant, so-
called creepers are cloud-like amorphous swarms of
small, black bubbles that are strangely fuzzily defined,
as if surrounded by some sort of visual refraction effect.
These clouds are theorized to in fact be autonomous
femtobot swarms—similar to nanobots, but affecting
matter on an even smaller scale, at the level of an atomic
nucleus. These black bubbles are capable of coalescing
into physical shapes in various states and can penetrate
just about any material or substance in a matter of
Action Turns. They may even penetrate morphs, access-
ing and interfacing with neural and electronic systems
directly. For rules purposes, treat creepers the same as a
self-replicating nanoswarm (p. 383).
 COG       COO       INT       REF     SAV      SOM       WIL     MOX
 +5 (20)   — (15)   +5 (20)   + (30)
                               10      — (15)   — (15)   + (30)
                                                          10       —

  INIT     SPD       LUC       TT       IR      DUR       WT      DR
  100       2         —        —        —       100       20      200
Mobility System: Walker/Microlight (4/16) (may
  create other mobility systems with different rates)
Skills: Fray 40, Free Fall 50, Intimidation 60, Percep-
  tion 50, Unarmed Combat (Grapple) 50 (60)
Notes: 360-degree Vision, Chemical Sniffer, Electrical
  Sense, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Frac-
  tal Digits, Nanoscopic Vision, Radar, Radiation
  Sense, Swarm Composition (but may make SOM
  Tests, and plasma weapons do only 1d10 damage),
  T-ray Emitter
