EXSURGENT PSI
In addition to psi-chi and psi-gamma (see Psi, p. 220),
exsurgents have access to a third level of psi ability
(the Psi trait at Level 3), known as psi-epsilon. Psi-
epsilon is theorized to allow a level of interaction with
the underlying physics of reality that is beyond the
comprehension of transhuman science. Though some
Firewall scientists have speculated about the ma-
nipulation of dark energy or the Higgs field and Higgs
boson particles and similar exotic ideas, the truth is
that psi epsilon represents an understanding of science
so far advanced and so alien that transhumanity can
only guess at its mechanics.

EXSURGENT SYNTHMORPHS AND PSI
Exsurgents in synthetic morphs that were transformed
via nanoplague may use psi, despite lacking a biologi-
cal brain. Through some unknown mechanism, the
infecting nanobots are able to simulate a biological
brain's effects. This feature, however, also makes them
vulnerable to psi use by others.

EXSURGENT PSI STRAIN
Exsurgents with Level 3 psi (psi-gamma) do not suffer
strain when using psi. Instead, they draw requisite
energy from the environment around them. In game
terms, this means that gamemasters do not need to
worry about rolling strain for exsurgent sleights. On a
cinematic level, it also allows the gamemaster to add cre-
ative environmental details to exsurgent psi use: sucking
the warmth out of the air, killing the lights, withering
plants, draining power from nearby electronics, killing
small creatures or insects, lowering air pressure, etc.

EXSURGENT PSI-GAMMA SLEIGHTS
These sleights are available to exsurgents with the
Level 2 Psi trait.

DECEREBRATION
   PSI TYPE:    Active        ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:       Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
    STRAIN MOD: +2            SKILL:    Psi Assault
This sleight temporarily “shorts out” a portion of the
subject's brain stem. The victim's cerebral functions
and motor activity become severely impaired; apply
a –30 modifier to all actions. If an Excellent Suc-
cess is scored, the target effectively loses all cerebral
functioning, including vision, hearing, other sensory
functions, and mesh use. Their muscles and limbs also
tense and become rigid, essentially paralyzing them in
what looks like an agonized state.

ONSLAUGHT
   PSI TYPE:    Active        ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:       Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
   STRAIN MOD: +0            SKILL:   Psi Assault
  This offensive sleight floods the target's mind with
sensory input and thought processes that are so alien
and disturbing that they inflict 1d10 + (WIL ÷ 10,
round up) mental stress. Increase the stress by +5 if an
Excellent Success is scored.

SCENARIO
   PSI TYPE:    Active       ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:       Touch        DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: +2            SKILL:    Control
This sleight hijacks the target's sensorium, replacing
it with a virtual scenario controlled by the exsurgent.
The effect is much like being jacked into a simulspace
scenario, albeit against the target's will. While the
exsurgent cannot harm the target in the scenario, they
can learn something about the person's behavioral
responses to certain situations. While under the in-
fluence of this sleight, the target is cut off from their
physical senses (–60 to any Perception Tests), but they
may flail about and otherwise respond physically to
events in the scenario, which may cause them to hurt
themselves and will make them seem crazy to onlook-
ers. Targets may attempt to ignore the scenario and
concentrate on the real world, but this requires a WIL
Test each Action Turn and they suffer a –30 modifier
from disorientation even if they succeed.

STRIP MEMORY/SKILL
   PSI TYPE:    Active       ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:       Touch        DURATION:   Temp (Hours)
    STRAIN MOD:     +2        SKILL:    Psi Assault
Strip allows the exsurgent to suppress certain memo-
ries in the target's mind. This can be used to block
memories of certain events or even the victim's iden-
tity. The process is not exact, however, and so the
memories may not be fully suppressed and/or related
memories may also be blocked; the gamemaster de-
cides on the effect as determined by the MoS. Strip can
also be used to temporarily erase a specific skill from
the target's mind, preventing them from using or even
defaulting to that ability while so affected.

EXSURGENT PSI-EPSILON SLEIGHTS
Psi-epsilon is available to exsurgents with the Psi trait
at Level 3. This subset of psi involves abilities that can
affect the underlying physical nature of the universe,
creating localized reality-altering effects. Psi manipu-
lation on this level is extremely dangerous and should
have the potential of disastrous consequences, given
that these manipulations violate fundamental laws of
nature and sometimes create paradoxes between the
forces that glue the universe together. Gamemasters
are also encouraged to treat critical failures as appro-
priately critical.
   Given these factors, psi-epsilon should only be
accessible to powerful adversaries and used as a
gamemaster tool with extreme precaution. The exact
mechanics of psi-epsilon sleights are left wide-open,
however, for whatever use the gamemaster can
