dream of. Their intent is to be more cinematic than
mechanical, so gamemasters should wing rules effects
as needed. This is an open opportunity for the game-
master to create nightmarish monsters from beyond
with frightening reality-ripping and mind-scarring
abilities. While some example sleights are provided
below, gamemasters are encouraged to modify their
effects and to create their own.
  At the gamemaster's discretion, simply observing psi
epsilon sleights in action may inflict 1d10 + 2 mental
stress on a character (p. 215).

ANTI-ELECTRONICS FIELD
All electronics within Close range of the exsurgent
mysteriously fail as if electrical power is simply ne-
gated. This effectively disables synthmorphs and pods
and leaves other characters without access to their
devices or implants.

CASIMIR FORCE REPULSION
This sleight exploits the Casimir effect (an interaction
between the electromagnetic fields of different objects)
on a macro-scale, allowing the exsurgent to levitate
themself or other objects by creating repulsing fields.
This could also allow the exsurgent to push targets
away, pin them against walls, etc.

CRYOKINESIS
This sleight allows the exsurgent to drain all heat from
an area, down to absolute zero, effectively freezing
everything within range and inflicting cold damage on
unprotected characters.

DIFFUSION
This sleight diffuses light, laser, and particle beams, ef-
fectively making them useless as weapons, or at least
impairing the DV they inflict.

KINETIC FRICTION
The exsurgent uses this sleight to increase the fric-
tion applied to kinetic activities. This has a negligible
effect on most activities, but high-velocity projectiles
like firearms and railguns will be significantly slowed,
decreasing their DV by half or more.

MATTER TRANSFORMATION
This sleight alters the molecular bonds and atomic
components of a targeted material, causing it to either
weaken and deteriorate or transmutate into some
other physical substance. This can also be used to
alter the molecular state of a material, causing gases
to condense, solids to liquefy, etc. An exsurgent could
use this to weaken a door or other barrier, condense a
solid bridge out of liquid, petrify organic materials, etc.

NEGATIVE REFRACTION
The exsurgent redirects electromagnetic waves with
this sleight, refracting them around their body, with
the same effect as the invisibility cloak (p. 316).
PYROKINESIS
Similar to cryokinesis, this sleight enables the exsur-
gent to accelerate the molecules, increase friction, or
focus heat in a specific area, causing materials to ignite
or smolder.



THE FACTORS
The alien species known as the Factors are unlike
anything mankind has encountered so far (see First
Contact: The Factors, p. 40). Though they are aloof
and stand-offish, their willingness and sometimes ea-
gerness to deal with (parts of) transhumanity indicate
either a keen interest on their part in transhuman
affairs or some hidden ulterior agenda. Though the
various transhuman factions have been similarly wary
and cautious, and despite numerous communications
difficulties and failures, an uneasy relationship has
flowered over the past 8 years, facilitating some trade
and exchange of knowledge.

ORIGIN AND EVOLUTION
The Factors have remained notoriously tight-lipped
about their origins, history, and the location of their
homeworld. Though they have also paid visits to some
of transhumanity's exoplanet colonies, no gatecrashing
expeditions have yet found any sign of Factor habitation
or passing elsewhere in the galaxy. Repeated inquiries
by transhuman mediators have been simply ignored or
answered in cryptic terms that have yet to be deciphered.
  The Factor home world is in fact an Earth-like
planet with comparable atmospheric conditions and
a prevalent hydrosphere but with longer periods of
darkness (due to slower rotation of the planet and a
less-luminous orange giant). While adapted transhu-
mans could find their planet habitable, their abiogen-
esis (the formation of life from self-replicating, but
not-living molecules) took a different route than life
on Earth.
  The Factors' primordial ancestors began in their
planet's early geological history as a type of of pho-
tosynthesizer that ate carbon dioxide and water and
released oxygen, also obtaining energy from inorganic
chemicals like hydrogen sulfide. Long conditions
without direct light on their homeworld, however,
spurred the success of organisms that could survive
by acquiring energy in other ways. The next evolu-
tionary leap was to a stage similar to Terran slime
molds, eating microorganisms from decaying matter.
As evolution progressed, they mutated further into a
cautious, predatory species that fed on larger, danger-
ous creatures. Rather than actively hunting such prey,
this species developed versatile methods of capturing
and immobilizing their competitors (comparable to
Earth's funnel web or trapdoor spiders). Over time,
this method of trapping prey spurred basic (practical)
intelligence and provided them with the evolutionary
advantage that paved the way to sapience, driving
Factors to become the highest developed organisms
on their planet and build a civilization.
