   Like mankind, the Factors suffered through and
survived their own singularity event and encounter
with the Exsurgent virus. Perhaps due to their cau-
tious and calculating nature—and their evolutionary
experience in dealing with more powerful and danger-
ous opponents—the Factors are resolutely determined
not to make any similar mistakes as a species.

XENOBIOLOGY
Since life on the Factors' home world developed
differently than Earth and produced neither nucleic
acids nor amino acids, Factor metabolic processes
and “genetics” are very different from transhuman-
ity's. While little is known about the exact physiology
of the Factors, due to the lack of captured or dead
specimens to investigate (so far, no hypercorps or fac-
tions have risked an interstellar incident by abducting
one to dissect … so far) and their unwillingness to be
examined by transhumans, most common knowledge
about them is based on observational and forensics
research during their encounters with transhumanity.

INDIVIDUAL FACTORS
 Individual Factors resemble non-translucent ambu-
 latory amoeba, slime molds, or slugs. Though they
“stand” only 0.3 meters tall, their body diameter
 ranges from 1.5 to 2 meters, they can be up to 2
 meters long, and they can shape their body to change
 these dimensions. Instead of walking, they crawl or
 ooze from place to place by protruding finger-like
 structures (so called pseudopodia) that attach to the
 ground (or wall or ceiling) and which they use to pull
and retract their rear forward (similar to cell migra-
tion). Due to their malleable shape they are not as
strongly affected by gravity as transhumans.
   Most Factors that have been encountered are dull
ocher in color and are made from a gooey, gel-like
substance of unknown composition, though yellow
glistening patches (which are temporary organelles)
and bundles of fibers (some kind of muscular skel-
eton) often become visible when they move. While
all Factors are able to express versatile pseudopodia
to manipulate and operate devices (and even attack),
some subspecies possess, carry, or are able to develop
additional differentiated limbs, cilia, or organs with
specialized functions.

FACTOR COLONIES
Unlike transhumans, Factors rarely act individually—
in fact, individuality is a concept somewhat foreign
to Factors. Most Factors join together into a collec-
tive unit termed a colony. A typical Factor colony is
composed of hundreds or thousands of individual
Factors that literally physically join together into a
mass organism (resembling more a primordial soup
than a gargantuan Factor). Individual Factors are
indistinguishable from each other when merged into
the supra-structure of the colony, though individuals
can form and break apart to accomplish different
tasks. This colonial merging is mainly possible due
to the fact that Factors don't possess differentiated
and specialized organs or cell types that need to be
segregated from each other, but instead use an open
system of local, temporary gradients for regulation.
