Neurofilament connections effectively allow the
Factor colony to operate with a group mind-state,
with supercomputer potential. This also allows for the
easy transfer of knowledge and memories to all other
factors within a colony.
   If dismembered, blown apart, or otherwise sepa-
rated, individual Factors in a colony can regenerate
and reconstitute at a rapid rate without loss of ability
or memory.
   Factors reproduce when different members of the
colony produce gametes that fuse, grow into spore
stalks, and emit spores that later hatch and grow clones.

BIODIVERSITY AND SELF-DESIGN
Factors colonies are known for their high biodiversity,
featuring numerous sub-groups (so called phenotypes)
that each have unique traits (cilia, apocrine glands, car-
apace-like outer membrane) that give them an ecologi-
cal advantage or a utilitarian aptitude for certain tasks.
These traits are not random evolutionary features, but
are the result of intentional bio-engineering. The Fac-
tors have a strong grip on their own metabolisms and
genetic expressions and can draw on an array of ge-
netic building blocks and biotech techniques to modify
themselves rapidly and massively to adapt to special
conditions. Whether these modifications might have a
purpose beyond function, such as for reproduction or
self-expression, is currently unknown.

METABOLISM
Factors ships and habitats have transhuman-friendly
atmospheres with a slightly higher content of carbon
dioxide and less nitrogen that mimics the conditions
on the Factors' home planet. They don't breathe
oxygen via lungs but absorb it via their outer “skin.”
Since they can also use oxygen from other sources
(minerals, liquids like water, and salts) to fuel their
aerobic energy production (i.e., respiration), they can
be considered functional anaerobes, meaning they can
survive in environments without atmosphere, though
they must usually supply themselves with food in
order to do so.
  During the few ceremonial festivities to which
Factors were invited and actually attended, they
consumed and processed transhuman organic food
by internalization. On the first occasion, dishes and
dinnerware were absorbed as well due to misunder-
standing, but were excreted unharmed after the or-
ganic components the factors could utilize had been
broken down.
  While Factors are omnivores similar to transhumans,
they prefer immobilized live prey, which they enjoy
absorbing internally and digesting, excreting those
parts that cannot be used to fuel their metabolism.
As such they can devour biomorphs and non-metallic
components of synthmorphs.

PERCEPTION
Factors don't perceive the world as transhumans
do. They (usually) don't possess visual or acoustic
organs to see or hear but have a number of sensory
organs that grant them a 360-degree awareness of
their surroundings and enable them to interact
with their environment similar to or in some cases
even better than transhumans do. Their perception
spectra includes the infrared part of the electromag-
netic spectrum, magnetoception, a high resolution
chemical-gradient based “sight,” and keen haptic
perceptions (including vibrations).

COMMUNICATION
Due to the lack of a vocal system, Factors use different
methods of signaling and communication. Factors in
physical contact exchange information by juxtacrine
cellular, neurofilament interfacing, or by merging for
information transfer. Over distance, Factors signal via
pheromonal communication using airborne scents or
chemical signals with different metabolic components.
Nicknamed “Factor dust,” this communication is ef-
fective even over great distances (up to 10 kilometers).
Factor dust does have an odor perceptible to transhu-
mans, however, that ranges from smelly to unbearable.
This dust is also toxic in high concentrations and some-
times used as an offensive or defensive mechanism.
  To date, transhumans have failed to develop a device
that can analyze the Factors' chemical effluvia and
translate it into something understandable, due to the
lack of a conceptual matrix (though certain “moods”
have been identified). Instead, all communication
between the Factors and transhumanity is mediated
through computer interfaces. Certain Factor pheno-
types that deal with transhumanity have grown a a
neurobiological interface (or organ) that enables them
to wirelessly mesh with transhuman computer systems.
   Long distance communication between Factors
and transhumanity is achieved by normal means of
farcasting communication. There are strong indica-
tions that Factors also take advantage of quantum-
entanglement communications as well, enabling
Factor colonies and ships to share knowledge gained
in different parts of the galaxy.

EXOSOCIOLOGY
Factors are cooperative beings that exist as a collec-
tive colonial organization. Though they can oper-
ate individually from the colony, they tend to view
themselves as part of that collective entity rather than
an individual being. Multiple colonies often work to-
gether as a higher functional unit (a lattice), like some
kind of superorganism. These lattices enable the po-
tential for collective networking and bioinformation
exchange on a scope beyond anything transhumanity
is capable of.
   These colonies should not be considered the same
as the hive mind social hierarchies of Terran insects.
Factor colonies do not feature the same division of
labor and instead function according to a consensus-
based sort of groupthink. Individual Factors have no
sense of personal gain or property and share equally
with other Factors and colonies.
