   Factors do not experience emotions in the same
manner that transhumans do, though being evolved
creatures they are driven by certain instincts. They
know and understand many of the same concepts that
transhumans do thanks to evolution, such as competi-
tion/rivalry and altruism/cooperation. They also enjoy
an understanding of basic ideas of philosophy such as
aesthetics and metaphysics, though their conception of
such topics is likely to differ from transhuman notions.

ART AND CULTURE
 Due to their perceptual array, Factor “art” (creations
 and expressions that are appealing or attractive to
 their senses) is mostly chemical or tactile-based. It
 can induce certain “mood” responses from individual
 Factors and whole colonies, ranging from agitated
 jittering and release of a Factor dust interpretable as
“joy” to a tensing and solidifying of the whole body
 (and no chemical expulsion) that seems to relate to
 anger. Since they like and are susceptible to delicate
 compositions of different chemicals, certain bouquets
 and fragrances from liquids or volatiles such as wines
 and perfumes are both appealing and repulsive to
 Factors. The same is also true for the natural smells
 of biomorphs, meaning that Factors may respond in
 a more friendly or hostile manner depending on a
 particular transhuman's scent.
    Factors do not comprehend most transhuman art,
 as it is mostly visual or auditory based (e.g., music,
 painting), though they do seem to have an apprecia-
 tion for engineering, architecture, and some sculpture.
While they have expressed interest in digitalized media
 out of a curiosity (or plan) to understand transhuman
 mindsets, they lack the organs and mental structure to
 access and comprehend it.

TECHNOLOGY
Though the Factors repeatedly express dismay at
transhumanity's low level of technology, they have
failed so far to produce technology that is exception-
ally far in advance. Some believe that the Factors are
simply hiding their advanced technology in order to
keep transhumans from stealing or copying it, while
others believe this may simply be a posture taken
by the Factors to facilitate bargaining. The Factors
also claim that their technology would not interest
transhumans because of their differences in physiol-
ogy and mindset, and what little technology they
have displayed is certainly specialized for Factor use
(specialized neurofilament links, chemical signaling
and Factor dust interfaces, etc.) and so unusable to
most transhumans. The Factors have traded some
technology to transhumans, at expensive cost, though
the small sampling provided so far seems to have
originated from alien species with physiologies more
akin to transhumans.
   It is interesting to note that scans of Factor ships
indicate their technology level, aside from the drives,
is not all that more advanced than transhumanity.
Also of note is that no two Factor ships have been
alike, spurring some to believe that the Factors are
in fact making use of ships acquired from other alien
species—perhaps abandoned derelicts that the Factors
recovered and restored. Once again this has led some
to believe that the Factors are using what to them are
primitive craft in order to hide their real technology,
while others are of the opinions that the Factors are
simply scavengers and opportunists, piggybacking on
the developments of other alien species.
   One interesting feature of Factor technology is that
they use no artificial intelligences. This stems from
their own singularity experience. Instead, Factors use
infomorph versions of themselves or the accumulated
processing power of their colony mind-states to per-
form major computerized tasks.

FACTOR MOTIVATIONS
The driving reason behind why the Factors made con-
tact with transhumanity remains unclear and is open to
gamemaster interpretation. There is much speculation
among transhuman factions. Some think the Factors
are simply social creatures who are glad to make con-
tact with another post-singularity surviving civilization.
Others believe the Factors are mercenary traders who
somehow acquired FTL travel and use it to their full
advantage, fleecing various trading partners who lack
such capabilities (thus also explaining why the Factors
eschew the Pandora Gates—they disdain competition).
Still others worry about secret, hidden motivations.
   Despite claiming to represent a number of alien
civilizations, the Factors have been extremely reluc-
tant to provide any other information on these other
species or even to say how many there are. More
recently, however, they have expressed a willingness
to transport a small number of transhumans to other
civilizations, though at great expense and with no
guarantee to their safety or ability to return.
   So far, the Factors have made no mention of the
ETI or the Exsurgent virus to transhumanity, though
they are aware of their existence. Instead they have
simply issued dire warning and admonitions regarding
the development of seed AIs and use of the Pandora
Gates. The Factors have in fact expressed an extreme
reluctance to deal with any transhuman factions that
are heavily invested in gatecrashing, such as Gate-
keeper Corp.

THE FACTORS IN GAME
Factors should be rarely encountered in Eclipse Phase.
Most of their interactions with transhumanity occur
remotely and infrequently. It is uncommon for them to
risk direct interactions. It should be kept in mind that
Factors are cautious to the point of being conserva-
tive and view transhumanity as potentially hostile or
dangerous, so they are more likely to act with discre-
tion than boldness. Factors are also quite cunning,
having evolved from prey-capturing predators, and
still design complex machinations (traps in the meta-
phorical sense) to achieve their goals. In other words,
Factors out to achieve something are likely to hatch an
