ROLEPLAYING FACTORS
 When roleplaying Factors, their alien mindset
 and lack of individualism should be kept in mind.
“I” is a designation that does not exist in Factor
 terminology. Factors always use the plural when
 referring to themselves, usually referring to
 either their colony, lattice, or entire species. It is
 quite common for conceptual discrepancies to
 occur between transhumans and Factors due to
 the different sensory perceptions of each species.
 Factors do not “see” the way most transhumans
 do, nor do they “hear.”
    Communication with Factors should be chal-
 lenging for several reasons. While computer-
 based communication has enabled both species
 to talk to each other, there is no direct transla-
 tion and certain concepts held by one species are
 simply incomprehensible or untranslatable by the
 other. Conversation should therefore be mislead-
 ing and provide ambiguous information.
    When describing spaceships and habitats, the
 physiology of the Factors should be considered.
The Factors' malleable form and ability to extend
 pseudopodial limbs enables them to fit into most
 places and operate transhuman devices (even
 pilot a transhuman vehicle by “hand”). The same
 is not true in reverse, however—most Factor
 devices are unusable to transhumans, as they lack
 the ability for chemical signaling.                 ■



  elaborate plot to get it and are not against recruiting
  transhumans. Also, drawing on their abilities to self-
  modify themselves and technology developed on their
  own or picked up at other places in the universe, they
  can adapt to new situations very quickly.

  ALIEN MINDSET
  Factors don't possess Lucidity stats and cannot be
  driven to madness like transhumans.
    Affecting Factors with psi is very difficult, as noted
  on p. 222. As of yet, Factors have not exhibited any
  psi abilities of their own.

  FACTOR COMBAT
  Factors usually avoid direct combat but can defend
  themselves if they have to. They are only likely to act
  aggressively in situations where they have surprise,
  environmental or technological advantages, and/or
  superior numbers. Due to their cooperativism, Fac-
  tors are rarely encountered alone, working en masse
  to eliminate potential threats.
     Immunity to Kinetic Damage: Due to their gooey
  composition and non-differentiated physiology, kinet-
  ic weapons (firearms, railguns) are not very damaging
  to Factors. Most such projectiles pass through their
  gelatinous bodies, inflicting minor damage via hydro-
  static shock. The holes left by such weapons quickly
close in a matter of seconds. Likewise, cuts left by
blades rapidly seal. In game terms, both such weapons
inflict the minimum amount of damage possible.
   Regeneration: Even if damaged, Factors regenerate
very quickly. They heal SOM ÷ 10 (round up) damage
every Action Turn. Wounds may not be healed this
way, however.

FACTOR COMPUTERS
Due to using completely alien protocols and system
designs, Factor computers are essentially impossible
to hack. They do, however, employ some devices that
emulate transhuman computer systems for communi-
cation purposes, and these may be hacked as normal.

FACTOR DUST TOXIN
As noted above, Factors can deploy a type of chemical
Factor dust that is is toxic to transhumans. Treat this
as an area effect (cone) attack.
Type: Bio
Application: Inh
Onset Time: 1 Action Turn
Duration: 10 minutes (5 with medichines)
Effect: Severe coughing and respiratory distress, 1d10
  damage per Action Turn for 5 Action Turns (or on-
  going with continuous exposure), –20 to all actions
  for 2 hours. Medichines reduce damage by half and
  modifier duration to 15 minutes.

MELDING
Individual Factors may merge together to form larger
units, much like masses of Factors form colonies. In
game terms, use the highest stat possessed by the
melded Factors, +2 for each additional Factor up to a
maximum of +10. Durability (and Wound Thresholds)
are added together.

FACTOR PHENOTYPES
A few examples of the different Factor phenotypes are
described below.

AMBASSADORS
The ambassador Factor phenotypes are the ones who
most commonly handle direct interactions with tran-
shumanity. Most likely to put transhumans at ease,
these Factors feature a section of sensor nodules that
loosely approximate a “face.”
 COG     COO   INT    REF    SAV   SOM    WIL    MOX
  20      10    20     10     15    15     20     —

  INIT   SPD   LUC     TT    IR    DUR     WT     DR
   60     1     —      —     —      30      7     45
Movement Rate: 4/16
Skills: Deception 70, Exotic Ranged Attack: Factor
  Dust 45, Fray 25, Free Fall 40, Hardware: Electron-
  ics 35, Infosec 35, Intimidation 50, Kinesics 40,
  Perception 50, Persuasion 60, Protocol 50, Research
  35, Unarmed Combat 30
Notes: Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Grip Pads,
  Infrared Sensing, Magnetoception, Poison Gland
  (Factor Dust Toxin)
