GUARDIANS
Guardian Factors serve as bodyguards for ambassadors
or other Factors whenever they leave a Factor ship.
 COG    COO     INT   REF    SAV    SOM    WIL    MOX
  20     20      15    20     10     25     15     —

 INIT   SPD    LUC     TT     IR    DUR    WT     DR
  70     1      —      —      —      50    10     75
Movement Rate: 4/20
Skills: Climbing 40, Exotic Ranged Attack: Factor
  Dust 65, Fray 50, Free Fall 40, Freerunning 40, Infil-
  tration 40, Intimidation 50, Kinesics 20, Perception
  50, Profession: Security Procedures 50, Unarmed
  Combat (Tentacles) 50 (60)
Notes: Chameleon Skin, Eelware, Electrical Sense,
  Grip Pads, Infrared Sensing, Magnetoception,
  Poison Gland (Factor Dust Toxin), Tentacle Whip
  (DV 2d10 + 1, AP –1)



THE IKTOMI
Little is known about the alien race known as the
Iktomi except for the ancient ruins they left behind
on Echo V (p. 109). No Iktomi specimens have been
found so far, though certain architectural remains
suggest a predilection for web-like structures. This
has been bolstered by certain other features and relics
which suggest these aliens had a segmented, multi-
legged, arthropod-type form—thus their given name,
after a Native American spider god.
   What is clear is that the Iktomi suffered through
some sort of cataclysmic event that wiped out their
civilization. The nature of this event has yet to be de-
termined, but it raises concerns for many researchers.
Having suffered through its own near-apocalypse, it
is not comforting for transhumanity to find evidence
that other alien species did not.
   Though the Iktomi are likely long extinct, the rem-
nants of their civilizations presents a plot hook for
gamemasters to use for building scenarios. Perhaps
evidence is uncovered of Iktomi settlements in other
star systems, and the characters are sent to investigate
or a relic is unearthed that suggests the Iktomi fell
prey to some danger that now threaten transhumanity.



THE PANDORA GATES
The five known Pandora Gates (see Opening Pandora's
Gate, p. 46) all look and operate in a similar fashion,
though they vary wildly in terms of size, shape, and
available destinations. The gates are built from some
sort of stable exotic matter whose full atomic struc-
ture scientists haven't come close to cracking. To touch
and sight, however, the gates appear to be constructed
from a timeless-seeming polished black metal with no
signs of aging or wear and tear. Something about the
gates' physical composition makes them difficult to
look at, as if the viewer cannot quite focus on their
outlines. Some onlookers have reported feelings of
vertigo and nausea, while others have insisted that the
gate outlines move on the edges of their visions, as if
the lines are reflowing or the edges are vibrating at
high frequencies. Due to this disturbing feature, most
gate sites keep the actual gate structures covered.
   Structurally, the gates themselves are partially
enclosed by an irregular spherical cage composed of
black arms that are bent and angled in unusual ways
and sometimes interlocking. When new wormhole
location is programmed into the gate, these arms
physically change shape, move, and reflow around
the spherical gate area (suggesting they are made of
some sort of programmable matter). The openings
between arms are sometimes only large enough for
a transhuman to enter, while others are large enough
to allow a freight train of supplies to pass through.
In many cases, large vehicles or equipment must be
dismantled, carried through, and reassembled on the
