other side. It is suspected that the gate size could be
programmable, but so far efforts to do so have failed.
  All known gates within the solar system are located
on the surface of naturally occurring astronomical
bodies, be that a planet, moon, asteroid, or so on.
None have yet been found without such a land-based
connection (e.g., floating in space or in the upper
atmosphere of a gas giant), though such gates have
been found in other star systems. It is speculated that
gates could be physically moved, but no one is will-
ing to risk such an endeavor given the lesson learned
when the Go-nin Group messed too heavily with the
Discord Gate's controls (see Eris, p. 109).
  The arms comprising each gate's spherical cage have
an abnormal-looking organic-seeming growth on their
exterior surface in some areas, patterned in entranc-
ing twists, curves, and whorls that in fact adhere to
perfect mathematical formulas. It took some time for
scientists to discover that this growth was in fact the
gate's control systems, or so-called “black box.” The
interface developed to interact with this system is what
allows gate controllers to manipulate gate functions.

THE WORMHOLE
When the gates themselves are open, a sphere appears
within the central area that is not so much black as
pure nothingness. This sphere of darkness projects an
aura of charged energy, and in fact ripples of green
arc lightning cascade across its surface. Anyone or
anything entering that sphere comes out the other side
of the wormhole, through a similar gate, seemingly
instantaneously. An unknown force field effect seems
to prevent the atmospheres from the two connected
gates from interacting.
   Exactly how this wormhole is created is something
that remains outside of transhumanity's comprehen-
sion. The generally accepted theory is that each gate
acts as an anchor, allowing the fabric of space-time
to be folded so that two such anchored places can
be brought together, ripping a hole open between
them so that a person can simply step through. It is
unclear whether or not these wormholes are all pre-
existing, created when the gate was first established,
or whether each wormhole is manufactured whenever
the gate is activated.
   Other more radical theories on how the gates func-
tion exist, though these are usually discounted as far
less likely. One such theory suggests that the worm-
holes created are actually only zero-width Planck-
scale connections across space-time and that no matter
is actually transferred—only information. Instead, this
theory suggests that anyone or anything entering the
wormhole is in fact instantaneously scanned and dis-
assembled and then their informational blueprint is
transmitted as information across space to the other
gate, which immediately reassembles an exact copy
using some sort of powerfully advanced nano- or fem-
totechnology. Very little evidence supports this theory,
however, and the disturbing implications it represents
raises fierce opposition.
OPERATIONS
Only a few people know that the Prometheans played
a key role in developing the interface for the gate con-
trol systems, achieving breakthroughs in understand-
ing that transhumanity was incapable of achieving on
its own. Regardless of their help, however, the gate
controls have proven difficult, complex, and danger-
ous to use. Through trial and error—and numerous
horrible accidents—the procedures for gate operation
have become somewhat normalized and standardized,
though unexpected complications are par for the
course.
   Each gate can be programmed to open to numerous
extrasolar locations. In fact, each gate seems to have
a pre-programmed “library” of destinations. New
gate connections can be “dialed up” from this built-in
list, though there is nothing that indicates what the
far side of the gate will be like. Old gate connections
are closed when a new one is dialed up. Extrasolar
gate locations have ranged from habitable planets
and moons to deep space to truly deadly environ-
ments such as the crushing gravities and poisonous
atmospheres of gas giants and the coronas of stars.
Researchers have attempted to distill some sort of rec-
ognizable pattern by the manner in which locations
are listed and categorized, to no avail. Complicating
matters, there is some evidence that suggests that the
destination libraries sometimes change. More than
once operators have been unable to recall the codes
for previously accessed destinations, leading to the
loss of several gatecrashing teams and colonies.
   Entering a gate is like walking through a door,
though it's impossible to see anything beyond the
gate's surface. One moment you're entering the black
sphere at your starting location and instantaneously
you're exiting the sphere at your destination location.
The true nature of the black sphere at the center of
each gate is wildly speculated upon, and almost every
gatecrasher describes a different textual experience.

GATECRASHING
The various hypercorps and factions in control of a
Pandora Gate engage in active exploration of extra-
solar systems—an activity termed gatecrashing. The
interests and procedures vary, but the Gatekeeper
Corporation (and to a lesser extent TerraGenesis
and Pathfinder) both recruit heavily for expedition
personnel. Given the high casualty and death rates
involved, finding qualified personnel can be difficult.
There are more than enough infugees, poor, desperate,
or thrill-seeking individuals willing to risk their lives
if give the opportunity, however, no matter what their
motivations. Gatekeeper operates a lottery system,
whereby willing adventurers can sign up in the hope
of their name being pulled to be sent on an expedition
to a foreign point in space. Such gatecrashers must
sign away all rights to any discoveries they may make
to Gatekeeper, however, though the corp provides not
insignificant rewards for certain discoveries, such as
key resources, alien artifacts, or new life. One potent
