prize has yet to be claimed: finding a living, sapient
alien life form.
   In contrast, the Love and Rage anarchist collective
operating the Fissure Gate on Uranus makes the gate
available to anyone who schedules time to use it, as-
suming their Rep is good and they aren't acting with
commercial interests in mind. Any discoveries made
via the Fissure Gate must be openly shared. The draw-
back to using the Fissure Gate is that the anarchists'
resources are limited. Gatecrashing operations are
handled in a DIY manner, meaning that the operators
may not be able to provide the support that certain
expeditions need.
   Resourceful parties may also rent gate time via
Gatekeeper or one of the other hypercorp-controlled
gates, though this tends to cost a small fortune. The
more a group is willing to pay, however, the more time
and support they will get.
   When establishing an opening to a new location,
several precautionary measures are taken. First, the
gate area itself is evacuated and cordoned off with
a defensive security perimeter, just in case anything
hostile comes through. Then drones are moved in to
push a micro fiberoptic camera through the gate to
view what is on the other side. This is followed by a
larger sensor package, evaluating environmental con-
ditions. If the environment is not hostile, a tethered
drone is then sent through to explore the far gate en-
virons, trailing a hardwired connection back through
the gate.
   For gatecrashing expeditions, these procedures are
often rushed—to the hypercorps operating the gate,
time is valuable. Each second wasted on a gatecrash-
ing expedition is one less second they can use estab-
lishing a new colony or exploiting a new world of its
resources. Indeed, it is common for a connection to be
closed when a gatecrashing expedition is sent through,
to be dialed up at a later scheduled time for retrieval,
so as not to waste gate operations on an idle connec-
tion. Many a gatecrashing team has failed to check-in
at their appointed pickup time.
   Most of the gate-controlling entities have estab-
lished a system and infrastructure for making regular
connections to extrasolar colonies and ferrying ma-
chinery and supplies through. Often this is handled by
establishing very short connections, just enough time
for a few people to transfer back and forth and/or to
send a trainload of supplies through via tracks that
run right up to the gate.

ANOMALIES
Unfortunately for many unlucky gatecrashers, gate
transfers have proven to be both unstable and glitchy.
Sometimes gates open to locations different from what
is expected—and such new destinations are often hos-
tile environments. Numerous personnel have entered
one side of a gate only to never appear on the other
side, despite those before and after them transferring
through fine. On several occasions, wormhole con-
nections have crashed mid-operation, sometimes as
someone was stepping through, leaving them literally
split in two on different worlds. In other instances,
gate transfers have suffered horrible malfunctions,
resulting in gatecrashers coming through the other
side literally turned inside out, melded with their
equipment, or pulped as if by massive gravitational
forces. Some expeditions report that stepping through
a gate has interfered with their equipment, disabling
it or creating other problems. A few gatecrashers have
also reported losing memories after a gate transfer.
Most of these problems have been chalked up to dif-
ficult controls and an imperfect understanding of gate
functions, but some conspiracy theorists suggest that
outside forces may be influencing gate operations.
   While the experience of passing through is instan-
taneous from an outside observer's perspective, many
gatecrashers report a subjective time lag, where it feels
as though minutes, days, or even weeks or months
pass before they exit. Reports have varied from
experiencing this period as a calm, meditative state
to spooky accounts of being lost in blackness and
surrounded by unseen whispering entities or more
hellish experiences of encountering monstrous pres-
ences. Though rare, some have passed through only to
collapse in a gibbering heap, their sanity ripped away.
A few report feeling that they have carried a presence
with them ever since ...
   While the gamemaster can make use of any of
these anomalies, they are also encouraged to use their
imagination to generate truly creepy and strange ex-
periences. At the same time, gamemasters shouldn't
make such experiences so prevalent that the players
resist entering any gates or the novelty of such events
runs dry.



PROJECT OZMA
The origins of Project Ozma date to the first modern
SETI (Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence) experi-
ments in the mid-20th century. That experiment—also
named Project Ozma—grew into a larger, international
concerted effort to try and locate and identify ETIs; a
myriad of projects blossomed during this time period,
all falling under the general SETI nomenclature. While
initially government funded, by the late 20th century
and early 21st century the work was primarily funded
by private sources.
  The first hypercorps to expand into space swal-
lowed SETI whole, revitalizing and re-focusing the
decades-old programs with newly emergent technolo-
gies, each in divergent areas to achieve a particular
hypercorps' objectives. After all, if the bean counters
were going to authorize the spending of billions to
expand markets into space, they wanted assurances
that no little green monsters were waiting to destroy
future revenue streams.
  As with other organizations that survived the Fall,
the broad distribution of SETI projects between
multiple hypercorps guaranteed that personnel, tech-
nologies, and processes would survive, even if a given
