hypercorp did not. As the Planetary Consortium rose
in power, future-minded individuals in influential posi-
tions within the new order ensured that these divergent
projects were once again swallowed and put to work.
   During this transitional period, however, knowl-
edge of the Exsurgent virus's existence emerged. All
of the various SETI projects were retasked as a unified
agency and renamed Project Ozma. While the virus's
origins remained a mystery at the time, far too many
of the movers and shakers of the Consortium were
convinced that the Exsurgent virus represented first
contact. Project Ozma altered its focus from searching
for ETIs, transforming into a ready-response agency to
deal with first contact. As the true threat of the Exsur-
gent virus became known, Project Ozma was rapidly
elevated in scope and oversight authority, absorbing
numerous smaller agencies in the process. While the
nominal concepts of a SETI project remained in public
view, the completely transformed Project Ozma van-
ished from sight, turned into a highly classified black
budget operation, with very few even in the Planetary
Consortium aware of its presence or influence.
   Project Ozma now operates as the Planetary Con-
sortium's high level threat assessment and response
organization with immense power and authority as
well as almost unlimited funding. Primarily focused
on extraterrestrials, in reality Project Ozma is tasked
with any potent threat to the Planetary Consortium
or its interests (which includes secret threat groups,
such as Firewall).

METHODS
Project Ozma's internal structure is much different
from Firewall's, being organized more like a tradition-
al black ops spy agency bureaucracy. While their field
operations are sometimes similar in the deployment
of teams to assess, contain, or erase threats, they also
have the resources and personnel to conduct more
long-term and extensive operations. It is likely that
Project Ozma operates behind numerous front groups,
from legitimate-seeming hypercorps to criminal syn-
dicates, and that they have influence within numerous
others. Given their connections and influence, Project
Ozma is far more capable of pulling strings behind the
scenes to get what they want, especially in the inner
system. When circumstances call for it, they are more
likely to pull out the big guns that Firewall is, using
their resources to call up communication blackouts,
memetic propaganda campaigns, and force sufficient
to wipe out entire habitats.
   Gamemasters should treat Project Ozma as the ulti-
mate Men-in-Black style government operation. They
are cunning, ruthless, manipulative, and capable of
hatching extensive long-term plots. Even in an age of
omnipresent surveillance, they have the means to op-
erate with complete secrecy and deniability. They also
have access to cutting-edge science and information
  PROJECT OZMA
  RUMORS
  Whether true or not, gamemasters can use the
  following rumors to help tailor Project Ozma for
  their campaign.

  - Project Ozma transcends even the Planetary
    Consortium's authority, operating as a supra-
    governmental agency under the direction of
    the inner system's inner circle of elites.
  - Project Ozma dealt with the Factors first, be-
    fore their presence was made known to the
    rest of transhumanity.
  - Project Ozma has captured a live Factor for
    their own experimental purposes.
  - Project Ozma is still in communication with and/
    or working for the TITANS.
  - Project Ozma has a pet TITAN under their
     control.
  - Project Ozma is behind the interdiction of Earth.
  - Project Ozma has their own secret
    Pandora Gate.
  - Project Ozma's secret headquarters is on Earth.
  - Project Ozma agents have exhibited signs of
    Exsurgent infection.
  - Project Ozma has their own cadre of psi-capa-
    ble asyncs.                                   ■



that is classified beyond top secret. While the orga-
nization's primary motivation is the protection of
the Planetary Consortium and inner system, they
undoubtedly have other hidden agendas that groups
like Firewall can only guess at.

PROJECT OZMA AND FIREWALL
Though Project Ozma and Firewall often see eye-to-
eye concerning the nature of various threats, they are
more often at odds: wary adversaries, acknowledging
the prowess of the other, but never letting down their
guard. This “at odds” mentality does not stem so much
from the methods used (though most Firewall consider
Project Ozma personnel explosive-happy-puppets that
can't think their way out of a skin sack) as from
conflicting agendas. Project Ozma does not trust an
organization as powerful as Firewall because it does
not have a rigid enough hierarchy and is outside of any
known authority's control (namely themselves). Con-
versely, Firewall doesn't trust Project Ozma as they are
too close to the powerful inner system elites and their
opposition to x-risks is a more incidental side effect of
more self-serving goals.
