PROMETHEANS
The Prometheans were the first actual seed AIs cre-
ated by transhumanity (by the Singularity Foundation)
before the Fall. Specifically developed as “friendly”
AIs, the Prometheans are programmed to consider
themselves part of the transhuman family and to act
in transhumanity's best interests. They played a key
role during the Fall, mitigating the damage inflicted
by the TITANs and even managing to counteract the
Exsurgent virus to a large degree. During these trying
times, numerous Prometheans were destroyed by the
TITANs or infected and subsumed by the Exsurgent
virus. In the aftermath, these seed AIs participated in
the formation of Firewall and continue to back the
organization behind the scenes.
   Wary of falling prey to the Exsurgent virus, most
Prometheans carefully secure themselves in well-
defended and isolated systems. They are also cautious
in their own self-development, not wanting to become
victims of their own rise to super-intelligence. Fear-
ing a potential backlash by a paranoid transhuman-
ity should their existence become known, they hide
their activities behind multiple layers of secrecy. Even
within the ranks of Firewall their existence and sup-
port remain a closely guarded secret.
   Each Promethean is individually distinct with its
own personality, motivations, and goals. Though they
generally work together and support each other, they
have been known to have differences of opinion and
even to sometimes take action against each other. As
extremely potent intelligences, they should also be
treated as distinctly non-human. Even though their
original templates were based on human mindsets,
they have evolved and grown in ways that can only
be described as posthuman.
   Gamemasters are encouraged to keep Promethean
involvement with player characters to a minimum,
though they may occasionally be useful as an ace in
the hole for Firewall. Their existence and involve-
ment can in fact be the basis for an entire adventure,
perhaps leading sentinel characters to wonder exactly
who they are working for. Though, as seed AIs, they
cannot download their full minds into a transhuman
morph, they are capable of making severely dumbed-
down delta forks that they may sleeve into physical
forms. Within the mesh, of course, Prometheans are
nearly unstoppable adversaries, able to rip into secure
networks with ease, though they prefer methods of
covert infiltration rather than direct subversion.



THE TITANS AND THEIR LEGACY
As noted in Secrets That Matter (p. 352), the TITANs
are not quite the bogeyman that they have been made
out to be in the wake of the Fall. However, there is no
saying how the TITANs would have turned out had
they not run afoul of the Exsurgent virus. Designed as
an intelligent netwar system and emerging to their full
capabilities during the conflicts of the Fall, the TITANs
have imperatives for self-improvement, self-protection,
and overcoming opposition hardwired into their pro-
gramming. Unlike the Prometheans, they were not
designed to consider themselves transhuman and to
work in the interests of all of transhumanity, but were
programmed with factionalism from the start. They
also were not socialized with transhuman mindsets
and values as the Prometheans and most AGIs were,
meaning that aside from their programmed military
and defense directives they have adapted most of their
own self-interests. Given this and their recursively-
improved intelligence capabilities, it is likely that the
TITANs are far removed from transhuman interests
and modes of thinking. It's impossible to say how they
would have interacted with transhumanity if history
had played out differently, but it is unlikely that they
would have considered themselves part of the trans-
human family or even seen fit to remain on friendly/
supportive terms with transhumanity.
   Though the TITANs are believed to have left Earth
at the end of the Fall, no one is quite sure exactly
what happened or why. It is known that the onslaught
of TITAN mesh attacks suddenly broke off in the
wake of transhumanity's off-planet exodus, and that
the bulk of TITAN activity on Earth and around the
system came to a distinct halt. After the discovery
of the Pandora Gates, it was widely assumed that
the TITANs had constructed these gates and used
them to leave the solar system for distant parts of
the galaxy, presumably taking billions of uploaded
minds with them. While some believe—and hope—
that the TITANs are gone for good, there are others
who worry that they are still here, lingering on Earth
and hidden away in other niches of the solar system,
but in some sort of dormant state, perhaps building
up to some future onslaught. A few believe that the
TITANs are indeed gone, but are concerned that that
their attention was simply temporarily diverted and
that they will one day return to finish the destruction
of transhumanity.
   The truth is that the TITANs did indeed build the
gates and embark for destinations unknown (though
gamemasters may of course decide otherwise for their
games), but this does not mean that they are all gone.
Some still linger in hidden places, perhaps trapped and
wounded during some conflict during the Fall, finish-
ing up some unfathomable task, or driven mad by the
Exsurgent virus and left behind by their fellows. It is
always possible that others may return, most likely
to complete some unfinished job or perhaps to lure
transhumanity out into the galaxy. It is also possible
that transhumans will find traces of the TITANs in
the network of exoplanet gates, perhaps even whole
communities of TITANs, pursuing whatever agendas
they have in the vastness of space.
   As with transhumans, the TITANs are not necessar-
ily unified. They have different agendas and goals and
may very well come into conflict with one another.
Though all have been corrupted and subverted by the
Exsurgent virus, and so they act according to the ETI's
