whims, some of them retain aspects of their original
minds and do not always fall in step as quickly as the
others. Gamemasters can use this to their advantage,
creating plots that allow the characters to exploit
differences between the TITANs in order to escape
otherwise deadly or impossible situations.
   In game terms, the TITANs are not given stats.
They are as potent as the gamemaster needs them to
be. Like the Prometheans, the TITANs are incapable
of downloading their full intelligence into physical
morphs, though they may puppeteer morphs or create
limited delta forks for sleeving purposes. Like the Pro-
metheans, they should rarely be used or encountered
directly by the player characters
  While the TITANs may no longer be the direct
threat they once were, they left behind an arsenal of
weapons, nanoswarms, and virii that still linger on
Earth, the Zone on Mars, and various derelict habitats
and deserted places. Characters venturing into such
places may encounter these as a threat or they may
need to work against an outbreak of such dangers in
an inhabited habitat.

DEADLY MACHINES
The TITANs unleashed a number of deadly machines
during the Fall, many of which still seek out transhu-
mans to attack.

FRACTALS
Fractals are advanced bush robots. In their standard
form, fractals resemble a strange sort of metallic
bush surrounded with an eerie glittering haze. In
their center are a number of metallic branches, linked
together with a flexible joint. Each of these branches
splits into two or more smaller branches, also with
flexible joints. These branches also split, and then split
again, and so on down to the molecular scale. The tip
of each fractal branch ends in a nanoscale manipula-
tor. Fractals are deceptively potent adversaries, having
the capability to dismantle almost anything at the
molecular level, much like a disassembler nanoswarm
(p. 329), and also to rebuild anything just like a nano-
fabricator (p. 327). Attacking them with projectiles is
futile, as they absorb the ammunition, break it down
into its constituent atoms or molecules, and then use
those as components to build a weapon to use back
against you.
   Fractals can be equipped with any type of gear the
gamemaster desires—if they don't have something,
they can make it. Fractals are also able to nanofab-
ricate items much more quickly than transhuman
nanofabricators; reduce all times by half (half an hour
per Cost category). Fractals are difficult to damage, as
their “bodies” are actually airy assemblages of fractal
branches. Any damaged branches that are broken off
are caught and absorbed by others. Reduce damage
from all standard non-area effect or spray attacks to
the minimum possible damage. Area effect and spray
weapons do half damage. Fractals are self-repairing,
regenerating damage at the rate of 1d10 points per
half hour and repairing wounds at the rate of 1 per
hour after all damage is healed.
 COG    COO     INT   REF    SAV    SOM    WIL    MOX
  30     25      30    20     10     25    30      —

 INIT   SPD    LUC     TT     IR    DUR    WT     DR
 100     1      —      —      —      50    20     —
Skills: Beam Weapons 50, Climbing 60, Fray 40, Free
  Fall 40, Freerunning 50, Infiltration 70, Infosec 65,
  Interfacing 45, Intimidation 50, Kinetic Weapons
  60, Perception 50, Programming: Nanofabrication
  80, Research 40, Spray Weapons 45, Unarmed
  Combat 55
Notes: Any implants, gear, weapons, or enhancements
  the gamemaster desires
