NANOVIRII
The TITANs unleashed a number of biowar plagues
during the Fall. Similar to the exsurgent virus, these
were spread as biological nanovirii (p. 363) or nano-
swarm plagues (p. 364)—use the same rules for deter-
mining exposure and infection.

MELDER
This virus slowly breaks down the target's body,
converting the biological materials into some sort of
biofilament that then meshes with implants, electron-
ics, and physical objects and structures. In effect, the
biological and synthetic are melded together, continu-
ing to expand and grow, consuming anything around
them into their growth. Victims suffer 1d10 DV and
1d10 SV every hour, implants become inoperable after
2 hours, and the target becomes fully transformed
and absorbed into the new melding substance after
12 hours.

METASTASIZER
This sophisticated smart protein massively reprograms
the target's cells to go rapidly, autocannibalistically
cancerous. After 2 + (SOM ÷ 10, round up) hours, the
target suffers death by dozens of supercancers.

NECROTIZER
This virus breaks down the target's cells into their
component proteins. Reduce the target's aptitudes by
5 per hour as they slowly convert into a puddle of
sludge. The character dies if any aptitude reaches 0.

NEUROPATHS
These virii target the victim's neurological system,
often rewriting portions of it to inflict some type of
permanent neurological damage. After 12 hours, this
virus inflicts the Neural Damage trait (p. 150).

PETRIFIER
The petrifier virus transforms the target's cells into
a simple molecular compound or element—typically
carbon or crystal. The target suffers 1d10 DV and –5
to all aptitudes per hour, dying when any aptitudes
reach 0. Victims are frozen in place, converted into an
nonliving statue.

UZUMAKI
The target of this virus begins suffering from bizarre
fleshy growths. After four hours, their body literally
erupts with meaty “vines” or “tentacles” that warp
into spiral patterns. This process inflicts 1d10 DV and
1d10 SV per hour to the victim until they eventually
transform into an unworldly expanse of fleshy growth.
In many cases, growth has continued long after a
character's death, creating expansive carpets and vines
of skin and blood vessels, like some sort of bizarre
meat plant.
GAMEMASTERING
AND ADMINISTRATION
The following advice will assist gamemasters in run-
ning their games more efficiently.

AWARDING REZ POINTS
In Eclipse Phase, characters earn Rez Points in order
to advance (see Character Advancement, p. 152). As
the name suggests, these points are awarded so players
can spend them to better define their characters—to
bring them into higher resolution, sharper focus. As
the gamemaster, you determine when and how many
Rez Points to award, following the guidelines below.
   Rez Points should be awarded at the end of every
story arc, at the break in the action between one ad-
venture and the next. Depending on your style of play
and the length of your sessions, this should roughly be
every 3–6 gaming sessions. If a scenario goes shorter
or longer, the Rez Point awards should be adjusted
accordingly. In the case of long-term campaigns, the
gamemaster should break down the action into digest-
ible chunks, or “chapters,” and assign Rez Points after
each such segment.
  Every character should be awarded 1 Rez Point for
each of the following criteria that is met:

 - The character participated in that scenario.
 - The character achieved (most of) their objectives
   in that scenario.
 - The character failed to meet their objectives, but
   learned a valuable lesson.
 - The character contributed to achieving success
   in a significant way (e.g., right skill at the right
   time).
 - The adventure was extra challenging.
 - The character achieved a motivational goal (see
   Motivation, p. 120).
 - The player engaged in good roleplaying.
 - The player significantly contributed to the ses-
   sion's drama, humor, or fun with roleplaying.

  This should result in an average Rez Points award
of 4–7 points per character, per adventure. Game-
masters who wish to drive the characters' advance-
ment forward more quickly can increase the reward
amounts.

REPUTATION GAIN AND LOSS
In addition to awarding Rez Points, the gamemaster
should also adjust each character's Rep scores accord-
ing to actions they took during game play, according to
the guidelines below. For simplicity, these can be applied
at the end of the adventure, though gamemasters who
seek a more dynamic game could apply changes to the
characters' Rep scores in game, as their peers judge
them according to their actions (or lack thereof) and
news about them in real time. Rep scores should only
be modified according to public actions and interactions
