the character has with people capable of pinging their
Rep with positive or negative feedback. Actions that
happen in secret, without anyone ever knowing, should
have no effect. Likewise, pissing off a Factor or a brinker
isolate who never communicates with outsiders isn't
going to matter because no one else will ever hear of it
(unless the character lifelogs it and posts it to the mesh
later ... ). Note that Rep modifications only apply to Rep
scores tied to the character's known identity.
   Note that characters may gain and lose Rep score
in networks they don't actively participate in. For
example, a character with r-rep of 0 may help bring
out a major scientific discovery that is shared with the
solar system's scientific community at large, thus gain-
ing the character a few points of r-rep even though
they never hang out with argonauts or scientists—
what matters is that people who access r-rep will find
positive details when they ping the person's score on
that particular rep network.
   Certain actions may result in a character simulta-
neously gaining Rep with one network while losing
Rep in another. For example, an anarchist prankster
who embarrasses a major hypercorp figure in public
will certainly gain some @-rep points, but their c-rep
is likely to go down by an equal amount.
   Rep changes provide an excellent way for gamemas-
ters to include more roleplaying and more interactions
with the Eclipse Phase universe in their games. Social
networks are a two-way street, meaning that members
of the character's social networks might contact them
for equipment, favors, and information during game
play for things that are completely unrelated to the
mission the character is on. A character who ignores
such requests risks losing Rep. Fulfilling such requests
may gain the character Rep and may also provide
comic relief or even plant some plot hooks for the
next scenario.

REPUTATION GAINS
Rep awards are given for characters who help people
out, benefit a faction, do something creative, make
a major discovery or strides in a particular area of
activity, pull off successful publicity stunts, win a
competition, and so on. Some suggested examples are
noted here:
   Trivial Award (1–2 points): Do a Level 1 favor,
make a moderate contribution to free/open source
projects, throw a good party, make your sales quota,
do the job no one else wants to do.
   Minor Award (3–4 points): Do a Level 2 favor, de-
liver a kick-ass or moving performance, make a minor
contribution to science, win impressively at some
public event.
   Moderate Award (5–6 points): Do a Level 3 favor,
make a serious business score, lead the winning side
in a decisive engagement, create the meme everyone
talks about for a week and then forgets, make the
news for something positive, risk serious injury.
   Major Award (7–8 points): Do a Level 4 favor,
design the new tool everyone wants, throw an
impressive planetoid-scale event, complete an exten-
sive project (1 month work or 1 week of difficult/
specialized work), risk death.
   Extreme Award (9–10 points): Do a Level 5 favor,
start this year's hot fashion trend, make a major scien-
tific discovery, close the deal on a major corporate ac-
quisition, start (or put down) a revolution, complete
a major project (1 year work or 1 month difficult/
specialized work), risk true death.

REPUTATION LOSSES
Rep losses are suffered by characters who fail to render
aid when needed, lose professional credibility, make
major or public blunders, doublecross their friends,
and so on. Some suggested examples are noted here:
   Trivial Loss (–1 or –2 points): Fail to do a Level 1
favor, inconvenience others, be involved in profession-
al dispute, ruin someone's day, never are available.
   Minor Loss (–3 or –4 points): Fail to do a Level 2
favor, embarrass yourself at a public event, piss off
somebody important.
   Moderate Loss (–5 or –6 points): Fail to do a Level
3 favor, endanger someone's physical safety, make
the news for something negative, ruin an event for
everybody.
   Major Loss (–7 or –8 points): Fail to do a Level 4
favor, screw up a major mission or activity, endanger
someone's life, associate with hated rivals.
   Extreme Loss (–9 or –10 points): Fail to do a Level
5 favor, botch a major mission or activity spectacularly,
betray a faction to its rivals or enemies.

BACKUPS, RECORD-KEEPING,
AND SAVE POINTS
Thanks to cortical stacks and archived backups, char-
acters in Eclipse Phase can recover from death. When
restoring a character from an earlier backup, however,
it is important to be able to know what the state of
the character was as of that backup. Any Rez Points
gained or spent, any character advancements made,
any key information or memories acquired since that
backup was made are lost. This means that in terms of
game stats, resorting to an old backup can mean loss
of a character's hard-earned advancements—that's the
trade-off for being effectively immortal.
   Since these changes can have a serious effect on
game play, it's important to conduct accurate record-
keeping. This sort of bookkeeping isn't hard, and
there are two ways to do it. The first is to simply
make a copy of a the character's record sheet any
time a character makes an archived backup, forks off
an alpha or beta copy, or dies (thus freezing the corti-
cal stack backup). Each of these is considered a “save
point.” In this case, carefully note the date and time
(both in character and out of character), and what
the event was that prompted the backup. Since what
knowledge a character knows at different points in
their life may be important, you may also want to
note what important information they may hold in
their head, as well as what the recent events in their
