NPCS AND MOXIE
When a gamemaster is generating or wing-
ing NPCs that the characters interact or fight
with, the question of Moxie for NPCs must be
addressed. When it comes to run-of-the-mill
grunt NPC characters, we recommend that such
NPCs don't be given Moxie. The reasons for this
are simple. For one, it is one less stat/headache
for the gamemaster to keep track of. More im-
portantly, however, it represents the edge that
player characters have over the nameless mooks
they encounter. When it comes to major NPCs,
however—prime antagonists, key allies, etc.—
these characters should have their own Moxie
score. Because such NPCs play pivotal roles in a
scenario, it is important for them to be able to
alter the outcome of events in much the same
way the player characters can. It also allows a
gamemaster to counteract an unfortunate roll
of the dice that might otherwise spoil the big
climax you have worked so hard to set up.       ■



 life were (to help jog your memory later). This way,
 if the character ever reverts back to one of these save
 points, you have notes not only on their character
 stats, but what they remember.
    Alternately, you can keep a log of all of your
 character's developments, noted by in-character
 date. These developments would include: Rez Points
 spent or earned, character advancements made, key
 information acquired, backups made, alpha or beta
 forks made, and so on. In this case, if the character
 dies and reverts back to an earlier backup, it is easy
 to see what changes need to be “rolled back” to get
 back to that previous version of the character. When
 alpha and beta forks are made, you may also want to
 branch off a separate log for each fork, as their life
 stream may develop differently than from the original
 character they were spun off from.

  GAMEMASTERING PRACTICALITIES
 Eclipse Phase is a game about a dark future in which
 the meaning of (trans)humanity and its very survival
 are at stake. In practice, however, your campaign can
 take on a wide assortment of flavors or even mix
 several styles together. There's nothing that says you
 have to play Eclipse Phase specifically according to
 the guidelines we set out. This section covers topics
 you should think about while preparing a campaign
 and running it, to help you do things the way that
 makes you and your players happiest.

  GAMEMASTER RESPONSIBILITIES
 The gamemaster has certain responsibilities that will
 keep a game flowing smoothly. The following is a
 short summary of the basics.
  - The gamemaster should be familiar with the
    whole game. This doesn't mean the rulebook
    must be memorized. An understanding of the core
    mechanics is a must, however, as well as knowing
    where to find other rules quickly, as needed.
  - The gamemaster should have solid notes on the
    plots and subplots created for each session. Noth-
    ing will ensure you prepare better next time like
    having the players catch you in a major continu-
    ity error due to lack of notes.
  - The gamemaster doesn't just set the scene, they
    play all the non-player characters that populate
    the universe. Making each NPC convincing, while
    not messing up a plot or losing the thread of a
    scene, can be difficult. Notes are your friend.
  - Know when it's time to toss the dice and trust
    to the game mechanics to resolve a situation and
    when it's better to ride out a situation through
    storytelling and dialog. This is an acquired skill.
    The more practice you have, the better you'll get.
  - Don't cheat. Your NPCs should not have access
    to information they've not gained during game
    play. If you roll terribly for your major antago-
    nist at the height of the story and they fall with
    a whimper, roll with it. Be flexible and improvise
    in such situations. Your players are smart and
    perceptive and will know when you're forcing
    a situation with unfair tactics. At the same time,
    they'll also know when you've stepped up and
    run with the flow—and they'll thank you for it.

FUNDAMENTALS
It's possible to stumble into a campaign without ever
really making an effort to find out what everyone
wants, shooting into the darkness and happening to
score a bullseye, but it's not a very reliable way to go.
Successful campaigns usually begin with communica-
tion. As you begin to prepare your campaign, talk to
your players. Explain the basics of the Eclipse Phase
setting and let them look over the options for charac-
ters and tell you what they find interesting. Also take
note of what they find uninteresting or even repellent,
so that nobody wastes a lot of time getting set for op-
tions that simply won't be enjoyable in play.

CHALLENGES TO PLAYERS
Eclipse Phase is set in a time of catastrophic troubles
and looming disasters, and it's full of facts and con-
cepts that may be heady or even uncomfortable to
some players—not to mention their characters. One of
the fundamental questions for each gaming group is,
how much challenge to the players' sense of comfort is
a good idea? There is no single answer, because tastes
vary. There are groups whose players thrive on a diet
of culture shock, ideological disorientation, gray areas,
and difficult ethical choices. They love the moral and
intellectual battleground gaming can provide, and
are seldom so happy as when confronted with a
really hard, really interesting dilemma. There are also
groups whose players thrive on a diet of intellectual
