engagement, tactical and strategic challenge, and well-
developed roleplaying that never pushes players'
buttons or puts them into harsh no-win situations.
There's a whole universe of responses in between these
style sof play and none of them can conceivably be
right for everyone. What matters to your campaign is
what works for you and your players.
   Keep in mind as you talk about it with your group
that more shock doesn't equal more maturity. The
prime audience for gore in film, for instance, is not
well-aged men and women but teenage boys and
young men. Shakespeare's The Tempest is no less
mature a tale than Macbeth even though it has a
happy ending. It can be easy to confuse endurance
with enlightenment, but in fact the two have nothing
to do with each other. Endurance is about how much
description of visceral nastiness the players can take
(and deliver), while enlightenment (insofar as it ever
happens in gaming) is about what insights players
take away from whatever it is that happened in play.
Don't feel like a wimpy failure if you or your players
would rather keep the darker parts of the game world
suggested rather than delineated in hard-edged detail,
since the point is that it be satisfying rather than it
be as horrifying or mind-blowing as possible. The
converse is also true: just as more is not better, so less
is not better if your players do thrive on details. Your
job as gamemaster includes knowing as much as you
can about what it is your players actually prefer in
this regard as in others and seeing how you can satisfy
it in ways that are also satisfying for you.
   That said, there is one technique you really should
never use without very clear permission from your
players, and that's playing on their real-world fears
and phobias. If you know that one of them is, for
instance, genuinely phobic about spiders, you can
count on getting some real shivers by adding arachnid
features to robots and morphs. You can also ruin a
player's enjoyment of the session or the whole cam-
paign that way, if it comes unexpectedly and leads
to the real-world fear drowning out the experience
of play. Some players are fine with judicious use of
their vulnerabilities, and others just aren't. Under no
circumstances should you poke at weak spots without
making sure you've discussed it first.
THE PROBLEM OF SECRETS
Uncovering secrets is a big part of this game. There's
a problem, however, in that a lot of the secrets are out
there where players can come across them: in this very
chapter, in reviews of the game, discussion in online
forums, and so on. As gamemaster, you will need to
decide how you want to deal with the potential for
spoiled revelations.
   As with so many potential issues, the place to start
is with your players. Ask them how much it bothers
them to know things that their characters are going
to be finding out in play. Some players do a fine job
separating their own knowledge from that of their
characters with mental firewalls. Others have a very
difficult time doing so, and knowing things in advance
as players takes away a lot of the fun of character
discovery for them. In addition, some players have
a good sense of what degree of player-level surprise
works best for them, and some don't. Discuss it with
them. Tell them that spoilers are available, and that
you certainly can't stop them from learning it all, one
way or another. Ask them how much trouble this may
be for them, and then proceed from there. Ask the
players who have more trouble with spoilers to simply
stay away from early commentary on the game, and
tell them that you'll let them know when the spoilers
have come into play in your own campaign so that
it's no longer an issue. Ask the other players to work
with you in keeping things fresh and fun for those
players, too. In most groups, making it a matter of
cooperation for the sake of everyone's good time will
draw out good responses. (If it doesn't, the group may
well have other problems in any event.)
   There's a related question for both you and your
players. How much do any of you mind when a par-
ticular campaign's version of an answer diverges from
the stock one provided in print? There are two kinds
of variation possible for this, and each one raises its
own issues.
   There are matters that the game leaves unresolved,
so that there is no single authoritative answer, like the
number of TITANs in the solar system in the game's
present moment. If you choose to give a specific
number, it's your choice, and any number that seems
to work for your campaign will probably do the job,
