whether it's one, three, seven, a dozen, or something
else. Your campaign can't diverge from the baseline
unless your answer is relatively extreme, like “there
are no TITANs, it was all a hoax before contact with
the Exsurgent virus and then purely alien technology
after that.” In this case, your players can have read
all the game's secrets and still be surprised by the rev-
elation you present. The potential for trouble here is
not a conflict of expectations based on the game, but
based on expectations raised in other contexts. Some
games, like some movies, TV shows, and other stories,
develop a following with strong ideas of its own about
what the real truths and important matters are, and if
the following thrives, its members may end up with
ideas that have less and less to do with the original
inspiration. This isn't good or bad in itself, but it can
be a problem, which is why it bears conscious consid-
eration and discussion, both before play and as the
campaign evolves. Ask your players to tell you about
conversations and insights that shape their expecta-
tions for the game world and storylines. Sometimes
you'll want to work those in with your own plans,
sometimes you may want to deliberately play against
them for the sake of a delightful surprise (generally
more delightful for players than characters, but that's
life as a character for you). In either case, it's better to
be thinking about it than missing it.
   Then there are matters that the game does give
definite answers for, but which you wish to change
for the sake of your own campaign's characters and
stories. This is perfectly fine. There are no game police
roaming the countryside and forcing you to accept
answers you'd prefer not to use. But your players
will, as with the first question, have expectations, and
your campaign will work better if you make sure you
understand what those expectations are. How much
would it bother them if it turned out there were no
TITANs and it was all a hoax, and so on? It's hard to
guess what friends will say and impossible to predict
the range of responses strangers might give, so ask
them. (This particular answer is one that's unlikely to
appear in anyone's campaign, but it makes a handy
example for your conversational use precisely because
it's extreme. So their answers to it are likely to be
about the same as to any other potentially extreme
change, and this one probably doesn't give away any
of your own plans.) Some players are flexible on most
matters but have particular points of attachment;
if yours are among them, ask them to explain what
those points are for them, so that you can keep them
in mind. Other players have a hard time having fun
with any major shift from published standard answers,
and if you have players like that, you'll want to know
it so that you can see how to adapt your plans to
work within that framework.
THAT'S WHAT I'M TALKING ABOUT:
SHARED INSPIRATION
It's not quite true that everything changed from the
early 21st century to Eclipse Phase's universe, but a
great many things did, and it can be hard to keep track
of them all at once. This is where shared inspirations
can come in handy. One striking illustration can convey
a lot of details for both foreground and background,
suggesting an aesthetic standard for design, an exotic
environment, people doing futuristic tasks with appro-
priately advanced tools, and so on. A prose passage
from a rewarding novel may set an ambiance or nail
down some aspect of the characters' circumstances.
   There are potential pitfalls, and it's important to
be aware of them. The greatest is obsolescence, the
meaning of something evocative changing because
the players' reality has changed since the inspiration
entered it. William Gibson's ground-breaking cyber-
punk novel Neuromancer begins, “The sky above the
port was the color of television, tuned to a dead chan-
nel.” Supporting details make it clear that this is an
industrial port at night, the sky gray from pollution
and flecked with ash and other debris. But that was
an image published in 1984. A decade and a half later,
Neil Gaiman pointed out that to his children, the
color of television tuned to a dead channel is bright
blue, thanks to ubiquitous cable delivery. In another
decade, the default color of a station not in use may
be something else entirely. The moral is that it's not
enough to agree that an image is very striking. You'll
want to make sure that you all agree on what it is
about it that's striking, to avoid a tangle of miscon-
ceptions that could derail play later on.
   The References page (p. 394) offers a wide range
of immediately relevant inspirations, but it's not the
final word on the subject. If the people in your group
have a long-time favorite space scene, or description
of life in the midst of a high-tech investigation, or
poetic glimpse of what it might feel like to modify the
body in ways not possible in real life, or something
else that's stayed with them a long time and seems
like it might bear on your campaign, encourage them
to share. Remember to be courteous with each other's
personal treasures, whether you end up using them
or not; there's nothing like earned trust to encourage
more sharing.
   Images can be particularly helpful for what they
convey about the world behind and around the
foreground events. For instance, think of a corridor
on a typical spaceship or habitat in Eclipse Phase.
Did you imagine it as being a standardized size and
shape, so that its counterparts elsewhere would be
very much the same or a more individualized work
intended for use just where it is without concern
for interchangeability? Did you imagine it as well
lit even when not in use, lit well when sensors show
people present and otherwise dim or dark, or perhaps
planned to be well lit but in practice haphazard and
unreliable thanks to lack of maintenance and funds?
Did you imagine its surfaces smooth and clean, with
