equipment, maintenance bays, and the like all behind
hatches and covers, or was it cluttered and lumpy?
None of that matters all the time, but when it comes
to the investigation of a derelict, the hunt for someone
(or something) trying to hide, a race against time, or
other dramatic complication, these things could affect
your play, and rather than try to tally all possible con-
tingencies in advance, having some general-purpose
references can save everyone time and confusion.

THINGS THAT SHOULD NOT BE: HORROR
The universe of Eclipse Phase is a time of horrors
unleashed. Every character has had to come to some
personal accommodation with the existence of things
that offend our basic expectations of decency and
practicality all at once. Horror comes in many flavors,
and no one campaign can make use of all of them.
   There are at least as many theories of horror as
there are people who create horror stories. Everything
here is necessarily a generalization. You and your
players can find exceptions to every single point in
it, and if you like the way those work better, go with
them. This discussion is intended to trigger ideas, not
to close off anything. That said, there are some useful
generalizations about horror, starting with an insight
expressed well by H.P. Lovecraft: “The oldest and
strongest emotion of mankind is fear, and the oldest
and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown.” All
horror can be thought of as built around encounters
with the unknown, beginning with the realization that
there is something unknown present, learning some-
thing about the scope of its nature and activities, and
then trying to respond one way or another.
   In this game, the discovery part is half over. There's
no question about the presence of the unknown.
Yes, there really are monsters beyond transhuman
understanding loose in the universe, and everyone in
the Eclipse Phase universe knows how bad and how
strange the TITANs could get. Many people also have
some idea of how exotic life on the far side of the Pan-
dora Gates can be. There's no room left for characters
to respond to some new strangeness with confident
skepticism, sure that they know the range of what's
possible and plausible within transhuman experience
anymore. Almost anything might exist, given the
facts of what's already known. Instead, the question
for Eclipse Phase people facing a mystery is whether
this particular unknown will turn out to be simple
and straightforward to deal with, more complicated
but nonetheless a part of their routine lives like mal-
functioning machinery or a sabotaged and unusually
modified morph, or something beyond the normal like
a TITAN-programmed weapon or alien life. Sooner or
later, if they keep poking around, the characters can
count on running into all sorts of unknown and maybe
even unknowable challenges. Are they there yet?
   Horror is seldom very far from humor. Humor
serves many roles in human psychology, and one of
them is helping us whittle down the mental “size” of
mysteries and threats to something we can deal with.
 Furthermore, horror usually involves a balance of im-
 probable elements, with things lined up to go wrong
 in interesting ways, and it doesn't take much for a
 particular rickety edifice to go from strange and men-
 acing to ludicrous. When your players start laughing,
 sometimes the best thing for you to do is to roll with
 it. Laughter can do everyone good, supporting the
“play” part of roleplaying. In addition, some events
 actually are funny or at least can be taken as funny,
 even (sometimes especially) when most of what's going
 on is serious. On the other hand, if you really would
 like to keep a scene serious and the players break out
 in giggles, it's often wise to go ahead and take a break.
Tell the players what you're doing, too; trying to de-
 ceive a group of your friends isn't very reliable and
 can backfire badly. Make the break long enough for
 everyone to get the giggles out and then continue.
    At the end of the day, through communication with
 their players, the gamemaster will know how much
 horror their group wishes to encounter. A group may
 decide that they want to be 100 percent immersed
 into the various horrors of Eclipse Phase. Another
 group, however, may decide that while they enjoy
 the meshed theme of horror with the other aspects
 of Eclipse Phase, they don't wish it to be a principal
 element. In such a situation, horror would remain just
 that, a theme, while the plots woven by the gamemas-
 ter would spin around the myriad of other elements
 that make up the game.

TRANSHUMANISM
Humanity has embraced transhumanism for survival,
harnessing science and technologies to catapult physi-
cal and mental faculties to super-human levels, while
eradicating involuntary death and enabling near im-
mortality through the digitization of consciousness
and the ability to transfer bodies at will. This is one of
the cornerstone themes of Eclipse Phase.
  The technologies inherent to a transhuman future
raise many questions and ethical issues, however, and
these are some of the central themes that Eclipse
Phase seeks to explore. We encourage both gamemas-
ter and players to play around with the possibilities
and contradictions enabled in such a universe. How
do our mindsets change when death no longer looms
over us? What does identity mean when our bodies
are disposable and our personalities can be edited?
Are we the same person when we are revived from
a backup, or sent off as a fork? Are technologies like
nanofabrication something to be feared and restricted,
even when they can eliminate poverty and greed?
How do we ensure public safety in a world where
technology makes weapons of mass destruction easily
available? How do ideas inherent to religious and
spiritual thought cope with AI, backups, or resleev-
ing? What does it mean to be an uplifted animal in a
society centered on humans? Who decides our future?
These are just a few of the issues that Eclipse Phase
raises, and many of them can be used as the central
theme for an entire campaign.
