%%% 270.txt %%%
■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■G



ERATED FUTURE
 The future setting of Eclipse Phase introduces a
 number of technological elements that have a strong
 impact on transhuman society. These include backups
 and uploading, resleeving, egocasting, forking, nano-
 fabrication, reputation systems, space habitats, and
 space travel, among others.



 BACKUPS AND UPLOADING
 The transhuman mind is no longer a prisoner of the
 biological hardware on which it originates. Through
 various mechanisms, biological brains may be digitally
 emulated, allowing people to make a backup of their
 minds, including their entire personality, memories,
 and skills—a process known as uploading.
   The primary use of backups is to ensure the person's
 ego can be retrieved in case of death, in which case
 they may be resleeved (p. 271). For this reason, almost
 everyone in the solar system is equipped with a corti-
 cal stack (p. 300). Backups may also be safely archived
 in secure storage (p. 269) or used to create infomorphs
 (p. 264). A person may also egocast themselves across
 the solar system as a form of travel (p. 276).

 CORTICAL STACK BACKUPS
 Cortical stack implants deploy a network of nano-
 bots throughout the brain that take a snapshot of
 the mind's neural state, storing the data as a backup
 within the cortical stack. The average transhuman's
 cortical stack backs up their ego 86,400 times per day.
 Only the most recent backup is kept within the stack;
 older ones are overwritten. Pods and synthmorphs
 also can be equipped with cortical stacks (though
 AI-piloted bots often lack this feature), though these
 versions maintain an updated copy of the ego running
 in the morph's cyberbrain.
    In the case of death, accidental or otherwise, a cor-
 tical stack can be retrieved from a corpse and used to
 recover the character, either as an infomorph or by
 resleeving them in a new morph. Cortical stacks are
 diamond-hardened and protected, so they may often
 be retrieved even if the corpse is badly mangled or
 damaged. If the corpse cannot be recovered or the
 cortical stack is destroyed, the backup is lost.
    High rollers, well-equipped brinkers, and others
 in dangerous professions often opt for an emergency
 farcaster accessory (p. 306) that periodically (usually
 every 48 hours, but varying according to contract)
 transmits a backup from the cortical stack to a remote
 storage facility. This option is quite expensive, how-
 ever, and so is generally only afforded by the wealthy.

 RETRIEVING A CORTICAL STACK
 Most cortical stacks are carefully excised from a
 corpse with surgery. In certain circumstances, however,
AR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■
                      ■GEAR■
                       GEAR■

                                                                10


  a character may need to extract a cortical stack in the
  field, whether because transporting the corpse is im-
  practical or because the dead person is an enemy and
  they either don't want them knowing who killed them
  or they want to interrogate them with psychosurgery
  in a simulspace.
     The process of cutting out a cortical stack is called
 “popping,” as a skilled extractor can usually get the
  smooth-shelled implant to pop right out by making
  an incision in the correct place and applying pressure.
  One does need to be careful that the tiny, blood-slick
  stack doesn't slip away once popped.
     Popping can be done with a sharp knife and elbow
  grease, though it is grisly. Popping a stack is a Task
 Action that requires a Medicine: [any appropriate
  field] Test with a timeframe of 1 minute and a modi-
  fier of +20. Morphs with stacks in non-standard loca-
  tions or with anatomical shielding (carapace plates,
  etc.) around the stack may incur penalties to this test
  at the gamemaster's discretion. Of course, if you don't
  have the time for a precise extraction, you can always
  just cut the entire head off and take it with you.
     Once a cortical stack is retrieved, it may be loaded
  into an ego bridge (p. 328) and used to bring the ego
  back, either as an infomorph or by resleeving.
     Living Subjects: Cortical stacks may be excised
  from living people, but the process is usually fatal (or
  at least paralyzing) as it involves cutting through the
  spinal column. If the target is not unconscious or oth-
  erwise incapacitated, they must first be immobilized
  in melee combat (see Subdual, p. 204). Cutting out
  the stack is handled like a Medicine Task Action as
  above, but this process inflicts 3d10 + 10 damage on
  the target. If the test fails, they still inflict 1d10 + 10
  damage to the target. If the person removing the stack
 wants to leave the target alive or harm them as little
  as possible, they suffer a –20 modifier on the test, but
  may reduce the damage by 1d10 per 10 full points of
  MoS. Living through the process of having your stack
  removed is traumatic; anyone who does so suffers
 1d10 mental stress.

  DESTROYING A CORTICAL STACK
  Cortical stacks have an Armor of 20 and a Durability
  of 20 for anyone attempting to destroy them.

  UPLOADING
  Uploading a backup into secure storage is usually
  handled with a brain scan at the storage facility's clinic
  using a bread box-sized unit called an ego bridge (p.
  328). When activated, the ego bridge's sensor array
  twists open like a morning glory blossom, revealing an
  enclosure with a neck rest that automatically adjusts
  itself to morphs with oddly-sized or -shaped heads.
  The neck rest deploys millions of specialized nanobots
%%% 271.txt %%%
into the brain and central nervous system. The petals
are full of sensors that image the brain using a combi-
nation of MRI, sonogram, and positional information
broadcast by the nanobot swarm in the morph's brain.
The ego bridge then builds a digital copy of the per-
son's brain, which is stored away in the service's highly
secure, off-the-mesh, hardwired data vaults.
   In the case of pods, the ego bridge scans the biologi-
cal brain bits and also accesses the cyberbrain to copy
the parts of the ego residing there. For synthmorphs,
who have no biological brain, the process is much
simpler, as it simply requires accessing and making a
copy of their cyberbrain.
   In a standard clinic with an undamaged morph, up-
loading takes only 10 minutes, 5 with a pod. In other
situations, however, the process may take longer if the
gamemaster so decides. Uploading from a synthmorph
or extracted cortical stack is instantaneous. The ego
bridge largely operates itself. While oversight by a
medical specialist is a good idea, no test is necessary.
   If an uploading character does not plan to return
to their morph, it is usually put on ice until someone
else resleeves into it. If a new resleeve is not ready
and the uploading character doesn't want to leave a
potential copy of themselves behind, they can have
the morph's mind wiped by the nanobots as part of
the uploading process.

UPLOADING-RESLEEVING CONTINUITY
In ideal circumstances, a person who is intentionally
resleeving (p. 271) can arrange for the uploading and
resleeving process to occur with any noticeable loss of
continuity. Though the experience of switching from
one morph to another is still a bit jarring, the transi-
tion itself can be made into a seamless process, with
no gaps in awareness or memory, which helps reduce
associated mental stress.
   In this case, during the process of uploading, the
ego bridge is also connected to another ego bridge
and the new sleeve. This connection can even be made
wirelessly or by farcaster link (with a maximum dis-
tance of 10,000 kilometers).
   As the mind is uploaded, the ego bridge builds a
virtual brain by copying the morph's brain bit by bit,
using the data gained from the brain scan. At the same
time, this data is slowly copied to the new sleeve as
nanobots rewire the sleeve's brain structure (a much
slower process). As the transfer occurs, the nanobots
in the brain sever individual neural connections and
re-route them to their duplicates in the virtual brain,
and then eventually to the new brain. Effectively, the
character's ego is running partially on the meat brain
and partially on the virtual copy. By the time the nano-
bots sever the last of the neural connections in the
old brain, the ego is running completely on the virtual
brain and the new sleeve's brain. Once the resleeving
is completed, the virtual brain is shut down.
   In terms of perceptions, the character, who is awake
during this process, experiences a very gradual shift
from one morph to the other. As the process takes
hours, however (or even longer if done via farcaster),
the subject usually entertains themselves with some
AR media, VR, or even XP to pass the time.

UPLOADING AFTER DEATH
It is possible to upload the mind of a person who has
recently died as long as the nanobots have time to scan
the brain before cell deterioration kicks in too heavily,
which takes approximately 2 hours. It is possible to
sustain a corpse for longer by placing it in a healing
vat (p. 326) for nanostasis. Post-death uploads may
suffer integrity damage; see Backup Complications, p.
270.
   Cyberbrains may also be retrieved from a destroyed
synthmorph and reactivated, assuming they are not
damaged too heavily (gamemaster discretion).

DESTRUCTIVE UPLOADING
Though rare, some people engage in a process called
destructive uploading, where the biological brain is liter-
ally sliced apart and scanned piece by piece. Considered
abhorrent and wasteful by most transhumans, “brain-
peeling” is practiced by some bioconservative factions
who view it as the only “pure” method of uploading
or the only real way to transfer the “soul.” Such people
typically refuse to resleeve, living out the rest of their
lives as infomorphs, quite often in dedicated simulspaces
that are treated as a sort of virtual afterlife.

BACKUP INSURANCE
Almost everyone, with the exception of neo-primitivists
and very young children, has a cortical stack. In the
event of death, however, a cortical stack alone will not
ensure resurrection unless you have acquired backup
insurance (p. 330) to cover the costs of your resleev-
ing. Going without backup insurance for any length of
time is taking a severe risk. Some jurisdictions (such
as the Titanian Commonwealth) have a practice of
bringing everyone back, even if only to an infomorph
state, or at least filing the most recent backup away
in dead storage just in case someone decides to pay
to resurrect them later. Other authorities will simply
destroy the stack or, worse, sell it on the black market
to a soul-trading syndicate such as Nine Lives.
  Backup insurance typically includes a subscription
to an uploading facility, usually requiring a visit every
6 months, to ensure that backup is held in safe stor-
age in case of cortical stack loss. People with risky
jobs (construction bot supervisor, hypercorp exo-
planet staff, girl who fights vicious giant eels for rich
jaded audiences, etc.) may back up once a week, or
even daily. In the event of a verified death where the
cortical stack could not be retrieved, the most recent
backup is used to resleeve the person.
  At the basic level, backup insurance will bring the
character back as an infomorph, at which point they
can access their credit and purchase a new morph.
More expensive versions will automatically resleeve
%%% 272.txt %%%
you in the pre-purchased morph of your choice. The
exceedingly rich will often have customized clones
(often of their original body) waiting on ice for them.
  Backup insurance often involves a missing person
clause, which states that a person will be brought
back if they have not checked in for X amount of time
(a calendar function automatically handled by your
muse) and cannot be located.
   It is worth noting that some criminal syndicates
also offer backup insurance at a much reduced rate.
The likelihood that copies of your backup are being
used for illicit purposes, however, is quite high. For
some people, however, what happens to a copy of
themselves is of no concern.

BACKUP INSURANCE LIMITATIONS
Backup insurance is not always perfect. Though in-
surance providers are required to make a reasonable
effort to retrieve your cortical stack, for many hyper-
corps this is a simple cost-benefit analysis that often
will not work in the character's favor. If you died in a
dangerous area such as the Zone on Mars, in a remote
area such as the Kuiper Belt, or are simply difficult
to track down (pushed out an airlock somewhere),
odds are against your cortical stack being retrieved—
instead you will be re-instanced from a backup.
   Jurisdiction can also play an important role. The
insurance offered by many inner system providers is
automatically nullified if you travel to an anarchist
habitat, gatecrash, break the law, or engage in certain
life-threatening activities like suicide sports or scaveng-
ing in TITAN-infected ruins. At the least, they will
refuse to retrieve your stack in these circumstances.
Likewise, if you struck a backup insurance deal with
a medical collective from an autonomist habitat and
then go and die on a hypercorp station, the hypercorp
is very likely to refuse to recognize the authority of a
bunch of anarchists and won't hand your stack over.
   Even an archived backup and a missing person
clause is no guarantee. A determined enemy could
capture you, pry the backup insurance access codes
from your muse, keep you on ice or quietly kill you,
and then regularly “check in” on your behalf using
the access codes so that the insurance provider never
realizes you are dead or missing. Though this requires
quite a bit of effort, it is often less difficult than deal-
ing with an immortal opponent who keeps coming
back no matter how often you kill them.
  Other dangers also exist. An entire habitat may be
destroyed, taking you, your backups, and your insur-
ance provider's records with it. A resourceful enemy
might penetrate a provider's security and delete your
backups, or simply bribe the right people to make
sure they get “accidentally” corrupted. Given these
possibilities, the paranoid often make sure to get
multiple redundant backup policies, assuming they
can afford it.

BACKUP COMPLICATIONS
In most cases, backing up/uploading is risk free unless
someone tampers with the equipment. If the character
suffered brain or neurological damage, the backup is
transferred via farcasting, or the upload is made from
a dead character, then the backup may be damaged
due to missing neural information. In any of these
instances, make a LUC Test for the character. If the
test fails, they suffer 1 point of mental stress per 10
full points of MoF. Note that this stress (and pos-
sible) trauma applies to the backup, not the original
character. If the backup is used to re-instantiate the
character, however, then the stress is applied.



RESLEEVING
Resleeving (also called remorphing) is the process
of giving a new body to an ego. Changing bodies
is a normal part of life for hundreds of millions of
transhumans, and it is an even more frequent occur-
rence for people in certain professions. Characters
involved in specialized work may resleeve as often as
once a month. Those who travel frequently may do so
even more often. Also, given the number of infugees
%%% 273.txt %%%
  who died during the Fall but have now acquired a
  new morph, the vast majority of transhumanity has
  resleeved at least once. As such, most transhumans are
  accustomed to resleeving.
    Adjusting to a new body takes time and a bit of
  effort (see Integration, p. 272). Resleeving is also diffi-
  cult psychologically, as reflected by continuity (p. 272)
  and alienation (p. 272).
    Once an ego fully inhabits a new morph, the new
  morph's cortical stack needs ten minutes to amass a
  complete backup of the ego.

  RESLEEVING BIOMORPHS AND PODS
  Resleeving takes about an hour in a properly equipped
  clinic. In essence, the process works like uploading in
  reverse. The new sleeve is hooked up to an ego bridge
  which infiltrates the brain with nanobots that physi-
  cally restructure the brain's neural structure and con-
  nections according to the map provided by the backup.
  Sleeving takes six times as long as uploading because
  the nanobot swarm working as a wet printer in the
  template brain needs to duplicate the entire physical
  structure of the ego's neural network. For resleeving, a
 “wet” ego bridge is used, meaning that the sleeve and
  ego bridge are submerged in a vat filled with nanogel.
     The resleeving process for pods takes only half an hour,
  as pods brains are half biological and half cyberbrain.

  RESLEEVING SYNTHMORPHS
  Resleeving into the cyberbrain of a synthmorph is much
  easier and quicker, being a matter of copying the backup
  into the cyberbrain (an instantaneous affair) and then
  running the backup in its virtual brain state (1 Action
  Turn). The drawback to synthmorphs is that they are
  more difficult to acclimate to (see Integration, p. 272),




RESLEEVING AND THE GA
The gamemaster has a fine amount of control over
characters may be supplied with new morphs by Firew
currently working. In this case, the gamemaster can si
plete control over enhancements, traits, etc. While mo
presents an opportunity for the gamemaster to throw
some new challenges to overcome. Gamemasters are
something they can work with without necessarily giv
   In other cases, the availability of desired morphs
outpost in the wilds of Mars is unlikely to have a w
synthmorphs may be all they have. Similarly, large hab
may be a waiting list for top-of-the-line sylphs or rem
morphs are going to be subject to local legalities, so g
Characters could always turn to black market morph p
  What this means is that gamemasters should never
that is unreasonable or potentially disruptive to the ga
want once in a while, it also makes for more interest
a little different than what they were hoping for or t
physical addiction. For extra fun, leave the character u
until they reveal themselves. As always, the goal is to h
   they are vulnerable to cyberbrain hacking (p. 261), and
   synthmorphs are viewed as low class in some cultures.

   EVACUATING A CYBERBRAIN
   Characters inhabiting a synthmorph cyberbrain may
   voluntarily choose to evacuate by copying themselves
   as an infomorph onto another device. This takes 1 full
   Action Turn. See Infomorph Resleeving, p. 273.

    RESLEEVING COSTS
   The costs involved for the resleeving process itself are
   generally subsumed in the costs of the backup insur-
   ance and/or the new sleeve itself. Costs for individual
   morphs are noted in the descriptions starting on p.
   139. See Morph Brokerage (p. 276) for rules on find-
   ing and acquiring morphs.

    INTEGRATION
    Getting used to a new body typically takes some time.
   The character must become acclimated to the changes
    in height, weight, sex, and capabilities, which often
    requires unlearning ways of doing things that worked
    fine for their previous form. Resleeving in a synthetic
    morph or an uplift is also quite confusing at first,
    given the drastically different morphologies, change in
    limb structure (and sometimes amount of limbs), and
    so on. Luckily, transhuman minds are adaptive things,
    and this process is aided by the application of mental
   “patches” during the resleeving process that give the
    character a bit of a boost for using their new body.
       An ego in a new morph makes an Integration Test
    upon taking control of the body, rolling SOM x 3 (morph
    bonuses do not apply) and applying modifiers from the
    Integration and Alienation Modifiers table. The result of
    the test is explained on the Integration Test table, p. 272.




MEMASTER
 at a character can obtain when resleeving. The
  or whatever employer/patron for whom they are
  y assign whatever morphs they see fit—with com-
hs should be tailored for the mission at hand, this
 e characters some new toys to play with and also
couraged to mix it up, have fun, and give players
  them everything they want.
 y be limited by the resleeving location. A small
  selection of morphs—in fact, a few rusters and
 ts have a high demand for good morphs, so there
   morphs, for example. In the same vein, available
 ng that reaper morph may be out of the question.
 iders, but these come with their own risks.
afraid to say no if a character is pursuing a morph
  While it's good form to give the players what they
 roleplaying to saddle them with morphs that are
  come with some interesting challenges, such as a
ware of a morph's negative traits or secret implants
   fun, but variety often helps with that.        ■
%%% 274.txt %%%
    INTEGRATION TEST
            EFFECT
            Character is unable to acclimate to the new morph—
            something is just not right. Character suffers a –30 modi-
            fier to all physical actions until resleeved.
            Character has serious trouble acclimating to the new
0+)         morph. They suffer a –10 modifier to all actions for 2 days
            plus 1 day per 10 full points of MoF.
            Character has some trouble acclimating to new morph.
            They suffer a –10 modifier to all physical actions for 2
            days plus 1 day per 10 full points of MoF.
            Standard acclimation period. The character suffers a –10
            modifier to all physical actions for 1 day.
            No ill effects. Character acclimates to new morph in no
 S 30+)
            more than a few minutes.
            Lookin' good! This morph is an exceptionally good fit for
            the character. No ill effects; gain 1 Moxie point for use in
            that game session only.



ION AND ALIENATION MODIFIERS
                                                             EFFECT
s used this exact morph extensively in the past                +30
                                                               +20
 orph type (what they were raised with)                        +20
el 2)                                                          +20
el 1)                                                          +10
 sly used this type of morph                                   +10
                                                               –10
eeving into a physical body                                    –10
resleeving in a non-uplift (of their type) body                –10
                                                               –10
 morph)                                                        –10
ified                                                           –10
ait (Level 1)                                                  –10
ait (Level 2)                                                  –20
apply to AGIs) (Alienation Test only)                          –20
only)                                                          –20
ait (Level 3)                                                  –30
orph, neo-avian, novacrab, swarmanoid, etc.)                   –30




        ALIENATION TEST
                                 EFFECT
Extreme Dysmorphia. The character doesn't like their new sleeve at all
and suffers 2 stress points per 10 full points of MoF.
Character is uneasy about the new morph and suffers 1 stress point
per 10 full points of MoF.
Character adapts to their new look well. No ill effects.
Best. Morph. Ever. The new morph jives perfectly with the character's
 ense of self, and even enhances it somewhat. The character actually
heals 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) stress points.
ALIENATION
After loss of continuity, the other major factor impact-
ing resleeving characters is alienation. Once the ego
has its new sleeve under control, it's time to look in
the mirror. The alienation test reflects the experience of
coming to terms with a new face, skin, and brain. For
example, transferring to a radically different morph
(such as a swarmanoid) can be difficult to grasp.
Uplifts often have difficulty getting acquainted with
the differing hormonal urges of a human biomorph
and vice versa. While the character's ego is as it was
in their last sleeve, the brains and neurochemistry of
many morphs may alter aptitudes like WIL or COG.
The effects of this can be frustrating or disorienting.
  Every character makes an Alienation Test to reflect
how mentally stressful it is to get a grip on their new
body, rolling INT x 3 and apply modifiers from the
Integration and Alienation Modifiers table. Consult
the Alienation Test table to determine the effects.

CONTINUITY TEST
Perhaps the biggest shock that strikes most resleeving
characters is the loss of continuity of self. This is par-
ticularly true for characters who died. If their cortical
stack was retrieved, they will remember their own
death. If they were restored from an archived backup,
they will not remember their death, but they will have
lost an entire period of their life—all the way back to
their last backup. In fact, if their body was not recov-
ered, they may not even know that they are dead for
certain—there may be a surviving copy of themselves
out there. The driving point in this loss of continuity is
a sort of existential crisis—they are no longer the origi-
nal person they once were. This leads some to question
whether they are who they think they are, or are they
some poor imitation and not a real person at all?
   To determine how this loss of continuity affects a
character, make a Continuity Test by rolling WIL x 3.
Every character suffers stress from loss of continuity,
as noted on the Continuity Stress table. Reduce this
stress damage by 1 point per 10 full points of MoS on
the Continuity Test, or increase it by 1 point for every
10 full points of MoF.

INFOMORPH RESLEEVING
Rather than resleeving into a physical body, a backup
may instead by instantiated as an infomorph, a purely
digital form. Infomorphs are distinct from backups in
that backups are inert files. Infomorphs are backups
imprinted onto a virtual brain template and run as
a program. This virtual brain state must be run on a
specific device and follows all of the rules noted for
infomorphs on p. 264. Infomorphs may copy them-
selves to other devices, typically erasing themselves
from the previous device as they go. Infomorphs that
copy without erasing are treated as forks.
  Characters instantiating as infomorphs must make
Continuity and Alienation Tests, just like resleeving.
  Infomorphs may be resleeved into physical morphs,
following normal resleeving rules.
%%% 275.txt %%%
         I wake up with a taste like guava and umami
         fresh on my tongue. Last night there was laugh-
                                                                                      CONTINUITY STRESS
         ter. We drank quinoa wine, and I was introduced      SITUATION                                               STRE
         to people I had never met before, though I had
                                                              Backup from cortical stack
         years of intimate knowledge of most of them.
         Half of Illyria Module is curled naked around          Character remembers peaceful or not notable death   1d10 ÷
         me in my sleeping chamber. Last night we               Character remembers sudden or violent death
         made music with synthesizers, wood blocks,           Backup from archive
         and a lur. We drank mushroom tea brewed in
                                                                Short memory gap (less than 1 day)                  1d10 ÷
         water from a rogue comet. Looking around me
         as the morning sun starts to light the far orbital     Memory gap greater than one day
         horizon of Ceres, it appears we had an orgy.           Not knowing if/how you died
         Last night was my resleeving party. This version       Uploading-to-resleeve with continuity (p. 269)
         of me—me 3.0—is ready for life.
                                                                Uploading-to-resleeve without continuity            1d10 ÷
         —Zheng du Thierry, Carnival of the Goat
                                                                Character is a fork


                                                               also drastically curtailed, usually tailored to whatever
FORKING AND MERGING                                            task they are intended to perform.
                                                                 Beta forks are created by a process known as
With all of these backups of transhuman minds on
file and an abundance of mesh space on which to run            neural pruning (p. 274). They are legal and even
them as virtual brains, one might wonder what's to             common in many places, except for bioconservative
stop post-Fall transhumanity from multiplying its              holdouts like the Jovian Republic, though delta forks
numbers by running additional copies of them. The              are more favored. Beta forks rarely have anything
short answer is: nothing, aside from massive social            resembling civil rights or citizenship and are usually
stigma and thorny psychological issues. Taking a               treated as the property of the originating ego. They
backup of a transhuman mind, copying it, and re-               are commonly used as digital aids or to represent the
instancing it as an infomorph is called forking. It's one      original ego when communicating with others over
of the most useful and still-controversial applications        great distances.
of transhumanity's brain science.                                A beta fork's stats are determined as follows:
   There are four classifications of forks: alpha, beta,
delta, and gamma. Though typically copied as info-              - Reduce all aptitudes by 5 (to a minimum of 1).
morphs, there is nothing preventing a fork from being             This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this re-
sleeved in a physical morph as well, other than legali-           duces LUC by 10 and INIT by 20.
ties and custom.                                                - Active skills have a maximum value of 60.
                                                                - Moxie is reduced to 1.
ALPHA FORKS                                                     - The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster's dis-
                                                                  cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.
An alpha fork is an exact copy of the original ego,
re-instanced as a separate infomorph. An alpha fork
may be created by copying and running an infomorph               Additional changes may apply as determined by
(from a backup, infomorph, synthmorph cyberbrain,              the neural pruning test. Beta forks take 1 minute
or directly from the cortical stack). Alpha forks are an       to generate.
exact copy of the character's ego, with all of the same
skills, memories, stats, traits, personality, etc. New         DELTA FORKS
alpha forks must make an Alienation Test (p. 272),            Delta forks are extremely limited copies of an ego.
and possibly a Continuity Test (p. 272) if copied from        They are more akin to AI templates upon which
a backup.                                                     the ego's surface personality traits are imprinted.
   Creating alpha forks is illegal in many jurisdic-          Also created via neural pruning, delta forks are
tions, including most of the inner system and the             highly functional (as competent as a beta fork or
Jovian Republic. In others it tends to be viewed with         AI) but have extremely limited skills and heav-
distaste, though there are some habitats/cultures in          ily edited memories, usually to the point of being
which it is encouraged.                                       functional amnesiacs.
                                                                 A delta fork's stats are determined as follows:
BETA FORKS                                                      - Reduce all aptitudes by 10 (to a minimum of 1).
Beta forks are partial copies of the ego. They are
intentionally hobbled so as to not to be considered               This affects all skills as well. Likewise, this re-
an equal to the character, for legal and other reasons.           duces LUC by 20 and INIT by 40.
Beta forks have most of the same skills as the original         - Active skills have a maximum value of 40. The
ego, though sometimes reduced. Their memories are                 fork may have no more than 5 Active skills.
%%% 276.txt %%%
 - Knowledge skills have a maximum of 80. The
   fork may have no more than 5 Knowledge skills.
 - Moxie is reduced to 0.
 - The Psi trait is removed. At the gamemaster's dis-
   cretion, other traits may no longer apply as well.

  Additional changes may apply as determined by the
neural pruning test. Delta forks take 1 Action Turn to
generate.

GAMMA FORKS
More commonly known as vapors, gamma forks are
massively incomplete, corrupted, or heavily damaged
copies of an ego. Vapors are not intentionally cre-
ated and are instead the results of botched uploads,
scrambled backups, incomplete or jammed farcasts,
or infomorphs/forks that were somehow damaged or
went insane. It is extremely rare for anyone to pur-
posely create a vapor for anything other than research
use, although they can crop up in some interesting
places. For example, poorly made skill software occa-
sionally includes enough of the personality traits and
memories of the person the skill was taken from that
it can behave in a vapor-like fashion when used.
   Because vapors are anomalies rather than purpose-
ful creations, the characteristics of individual gamma
forks are left to the gamemaster. They should have
some or all of the following: reduced skills, reduced
aptitudes, incomplete or incoherent memories, nega-
tive mental traits, and persistent mental stress or trau-
mas, including derangements and/or disorders.

NEURAL PRUNING
Most forking is done on the fly—something comes up
that the character needs a fork for, so they whip one
up on the spot. Neural pruning is the art of taking a
backup/infomorph and trimming it down to size so
that it functions as either a beta or delta fork.
   Beta forks are created by taking a virtual mind state
that is intentionally inhibited and filtering a copy of
the ego through it. Like a topiary shrub, the portions
of the character's neural network that exceed the ca-
pacities of the intended fork are trimmed away. In ad-
dition to the changes noted under Beta Forks (p. 273),
characters may voluntarily choose to delete/decrease
skills and remove memories.
   Delta forks are created by excising the ego's surface
personality traits and applying them to an AI template.
In this case the ego's memories are usually excluded
entirely—it is easier to start with a blank delta fork
and feed them the specific memories/knowledge they
need. As with beta forks, characters making delta
forks may voluntarily choose to delete/decrease skills
and keep specific memories.
   Transhumanity's grasp of neuroscience extends to
scanning and copying a mind, but the most intricate
workings of memory are still imperfectly understood.
Making precise edits to individual portions of a neural
network (to alter recollections, skills, and the like) is
still a black art. The difficulty with neural pruning is
that taking a weed whacker to the tree of memory
isn't an exact science. Specific memories may not be
excised or chosen—at best, memories may be handled
in broad clumps, typically grouped by time periods no
finer than 6 months. For simplicity, most beta forks are
created by removing all memories older than 1 year.
   When creating a beta or delta fork, the character
must make a Psychosurgery Test (other parties may
make this test on the character's behalf, representing
that the character is giving them access to prune the
fork appropriately). If the character succeeds, the fork
is created as desired. If the test fails, the gamemaster
chooses one of the following penalties for every 10
full points of MoF. Some of these penalties may be
combined for a cumulative effect:

  - 1 additional skill decreased by –20
  - Fork acquires a Negative mental trait worth 10 CP
  - Fork suffers 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) mental stress
  - Extra memory loss (gamemaster discretion; beta
    forks only)
  - 1 Positive trait lost

NEURAL PRUNING WITH LONG-TERM PSYCHOSURGERY
Rather than generating forks on the fly, some char-
acters prefer to have carefully-pruned forks on hand,
stored as inert files that can be called up, copied, and
run as needed. These forks are crafted with long-term
psychosurgery, meaning that they suffer fewer draw-
backs and the memories may be more finely tuned.
  Long-term neural pruning requires a Psychosurgery
Test as above, but with a +30 modifier. Delta forks take
1 week to prune this way, beta forks take 1 month. Ad-
ditional modifications may be made to the fork using
any of the normal rules for psychosurgery (p. 229).
   It is worth noting that some people prefer to use
forks of themselves or loved ones rather than a muse.
Likewise, some wealthy hyperelites are known to keep
copies of their younger backups on hand, sometimes
for decades, and re-instance these when their prime
ego has enough skill and experience to completely
outclass its younger selves. Though technically these
are alpha forks, their lag behind the original ego is
comparable in degree to that of a beta fork. This is
rumored to be the method used by the Pax Familiae
in instancing her army of cloned selves.

HANDLING FORKS
Gamemasters are encouraged to allow players to ro-
leplay their character's own forks. It is important to
note, however, that even with alpha forks, once the
fork and originating ego diverge, they develop onward
as separate people. The events that shape the primary
ego's personality, character, and knowledge will not
happen—or even if they do, probably not in the same
way—to the fork, and vice versa. The exact dividing
line between an ego and a fork is a central philosophi-
cal and legal debate among many transhumans.
   This means that gamemaster should not be afraid
to pull a fork out of a player character's hands and
%%% 277.txt %%%
 make them into an NPC if they start too diverge too
 greatly. Similarly, if a fork begins to learn information
                                                                            THE SELF
                                                                            Forking and merging have changed the way
 that the main character does not (yet) have access to,
                                                                            transhumanity thinks about the self and what
 it is probably also better to run the fork as an NPC in
                                                                            it means to have a well-integrated personality.
 order to avoid metagaming.
                                                                               While forking is child's play from a tech
    It is entirely possible that a fork might decide that
                                                                            nological standpoint, the psychological and
 it will no longer obey the originating ego and carry
                                                                            social effects of cloning a mind mean that
 about doing its own thing. This usually only occurs
                                                                            most people are cautious about employing
 with alpha forks, who are essentially a full copy
                                                                            forks. Some jurisdictions ban forking outright
 anyway, and as time passes the idea of merging back
                                                                            for all but medical uses, while others have
 with the original ego becomes unappealing. Beta and
                                                                            severe restrictions. In many hypercorp juris
 delta forks are quite aware of their nature as “incom-
                                                                            dictions, for instance, alpha forks are illegal
 plete” copies, and so usually return back home to the
                                                                            and letting a beta fork run for more than 4
 ego for reintegration. In rare cases, however, even
                                                                            hours without merging violates the modern
 these might make a break for life on their own.
                                                                            descendants of 20th-century anti-trust laws
 MERGING                                                                    Similarly, the Jovian Junta and other biocon
                                                                            servatives ban forking entirely.
   Merging is the process of re-integrating a previous-
                                                                               Disposing of unwanted forks is another
ly-spawned fork with the originating ego. Merging is
                                                                            thorny issue. In some places, it's as simple as
performed on conscious egos/forks, transferring both
                                                                            deleting them, because a stored mind has no
to a single, merged ego. The process is not difficult
                                                                            legal status. In others, a fork that doesn't wish
to undergo when two forks have only been apart a
                                                                            to merge back with its originating ego might
short time. As forks spend more time apart, though,
                                                                            be accorded some rights, though these are
merging becomes a severe mental ordeal.
                                                                            generally only granted to alpha forks.
   To determine if merging goes well, a Psychosurgery
                                                                               Most significantly, though, running a short
Test is called for (made either by the ego or another
                                                                            term fork of oneself for periods of an hour
character overseeing the process). The Merging table
                                                                            or less is an easy task for many transhumans
lists modifiers for this test as well as the result of suc-
                                                                            Many people use forks of themselves to get
cess or failure.
                                                                            work done in everyday life, and almost every
   For synthmorphs, merging takes one full Action
                                                                            one has at least experimented with forking at
Turn. For biomorphs, an ego bridge (p. 328) or mne-
                                                                            some point.
monic augmentation (p. 307) is required to merge,
                                                                               Transhumans view forking a bit like early
and the process takes 10 minutes.
                                                                            21st-century humans viewed drinking and drug
   The result of the process is a unified ego, whether
                                                                            use. A bit might be okay, but someone overdo
or not the Merging Test succeeds. Psychotherapy (p.
                                                                            ing it will be stigmatized. This is because most
209) and psychosurgery (p. 229) can troubleshoot bad
                                                                            transhumans understand the psychological
merges over time.
                                                                            consequences of overusing forks.               ■


 EGOCASTING
 In spite of being a spacefaring civilization with out-                Egocasting is transhumanity's most advanced
 posts throughout the solar system and beyond, tran-                 personal transportation technology, though only the
 shumanity makes scant use of spacecraft for interplan-              character's ego actually travels. Egocasting combines
 etary travel. Shuttlecraft using a variety of propulsion            the technologies of uploading and quantum farcasting
 systems make regular trips between habitats, planetary              to transfer a backup (or sometimes even a conscious
 surfaces, and moons. But for any trip longer than 1.5               ego, see p. 269) over interplanetary distances.
 million kilometers—the distance a fusion drive craft                  Though egocasting occurs at the speed of light,
 can cover in a day—people egocast.                                  egocasting times vary drastically with distance.


                                                        MERGING
TIME APART       MODIFIER SUCCESS                                           FAILURE
Under 1 hour         +30      Seamless ego with memories intact from both   Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) – 1 SV
1–4 hours            +20      Solid bond, memories intact                   Memories intact, (1d10 ÷ 2, round down) SV
4–12 hours           +10      Memories intact, 1 SV                         Minor memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) SV
12 hours–1 day       +0       Memories intact, 2 SV                         Moderate memory loss, (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 2 SV
1 day–3 days         –10      Memories intact, 3 SV                         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 2 SV
3 days–1 week        –20      Memories intact, 4 SV                         Major memory loss, 1d10 + 4 SV
1 week+              –30      Minor memory loss, 5 SV                       Severe memory loss, 1d10 + 6 SV
%%% 278.txt %%%
Egocasting within a cluster or planetary system is
usually just a matter of minutes. Egocasting from the
sun to the Kuiper Belt, however, takes between 40 and
70 hours, and so egocasting all of the way across the
solar system can take even longer.
  Once an ego arrives at the destination receiver, it
can be archived, run as an infomorph, or resleeved
as normal.

EGOCASTER SECURITY
Beaming yourself across interplanetary space is a
mature technology and usually works seamlessly. Be-
cause egocasting uses quantum farcasters, there is no
danger of radio interference cooking the signal and
causing data loss. Normally the entire process is medi-
ated by the character's backup service, and security
breaches are uncommon.
   However, there are several risks involved in ego-
casting. The most obvious is that the character's con-
sciousness is transferred as a digital backup file at the
destination. If the egocaster on the other end is not
trusted or the networks at the destination are privately
controlled by the receiver, the character is potentially
putting themself at the mercy of their host. Most hy-
percorps consider meddling with a transmitted ego to
be a serious breach of etiquette, whereas autonomist
types would find it unthinkably repressive. However,
political extremist groups and criminal organizations
in control of egocasters suffer from fewer restraints.
   A more subtle risk is the possibility for hackers to
exploit security holes in the egocaster and its attached
virtual space to steal a fork of the character. This is
extremely difficult to do. It almost never happens
during a normal upload, because the uploading ser-
vices are security conscious to the point of paranoia.
Even so, the forks stolen by such attempts more often
than not end up being vapors, because the intruder
is usually stopped before a full copy can be obtained.
DARKCASTING
   Characters who want to egocast without the atten-
tion of public officials like Immigration and Customs
must seek out so-called darkcasting services—illegal
farcaster transceivers typically operated by criminal
syndicates and other clandestine groups. To locate
such a service, a character must use their Networking
skill and possibly their reputation (p. 285).



MORPH BROKERAGE
Morphs are a major commodity in transhuman society.
The technology and materials needed to grow new
morphs are cheap and abundant, though they take
time. Cloned biomorphs take at least a year and a half,
even with accelerated growth. Pods, which are typi-
cally pieced together from vat-grown parts, take about
6 months. Synthmorphs like cases and synths can be
produced in a day, whereas more complicated models
can take a week or more. Theoretically, supply will one
day outstrip demand to the point where flesh is free.
   Characters have several options for acquiring
morphs when they travel by egocast, suffer heavy
damage, or just feel like a new body. When egocasting,
the most common method for travelers of middling
means is to store their current morph in a body bank's
secure facility and lease a morph at their destina-
tion. Less commonly, characters may rely on public
resleeving facilities, or, if they have the means, they
may purchase a new morph outright. Characters who
expect to stay at their destination indefinitely or who
decide to resleeve but aren't traveling might instead
opt for a trade-in on their old body, leaving it behind
permanently in most cases.

MORPH AVAILABILITY
As noted under Resleeving and the Gamemaster (p. 271),
finding the model of morph you want is not always easy.
While many basic morph types (cases, synths, splicers)
%%% 279.txt %%%
are generally available, characters can also locate new
morphs using their Networking skills (see Reputation
and Social Networks, p. 285). Certain morph types
are harder to find then others; the gamemaster should
apply an appropriate modifier for any morphs that seem
rare or unusual (for example, swarmanoids or reapers).
Likewise, some morphs may simply be unavailable in a
given locale. Rusters are rarely available off of Mars, for
example, while on Europa, most morphs are exotic local
aquatic varieties.
  The gamemaster determines which factions are able
to provide new morphs in a given locale. Factions
will not provide morphs that are unavailable to that
faction as starting characters. If the faction is not the
dominant one in that locale, a penalty should be ap-
plied, ranging from –10 to –30. Despite having a pres-
ence in a given locale, some factions may be unable to
provide morphs at all.
   If the character is seeking a customized morph with
specific implants or enhancements, the search will be
more challenging. The gamemaster should apply a –10
to –30 modifier here as well, depending on the extent
and legality of the modifications sought.

MORPH ACQUISITION
Once a morph is located, the character may call in
favors (p. 285) or pay credits for it. Morph costs are
noted on the Morph Costs table. In the inner system,
morph prices are often inflated by demand in the
market such that the most desirable morph types can
cost a small fortune. Outsystem, prices in rep are more
reasonable but still steep due to population pressures
on life support-dependent outer system settlements.
For travelers and frequent body hoppers, there are a
number of ways to defray these costs.

BROKERAGE AND MATCHMAKING
Finding morphs for travelers and the bodiless is a
 specialized skill demanding deep social networks and
a flair for negotiation. In general, it's a seller's market,
 so brokers (or “matchmakers,” as they're called in
the open economy) act as agents for the person seek-
ing a body. The Morph Costs table assumes a 10%
fee paid to the broker. Characters wishing to cut out
the middleman may reduce cost by 10% but take a
–30 penalty on their Networking Test to locate an
available morph.

CUSTOMIZED MORPHS
If a character seeks to have a customized morph (with
extra bioware, cyberware, or nanoware implants or
robotic enhancements), the costs for these enhance-
ments are added to the morph's cost (if the gamemaster
chooses, discount package deals may apply). Likewise,
morphs may come saddled with positive or negative
morph traits (p. 145). These traits raise or lower the
morph's cost at a rate of +500 credits per CP for posi-
tive traits, or –200 credits per CP of negative traits.
Negative traits typically reflect abuses the morph has
suffered at the hands of previous occupants.
                    MORPH COSTS
MORPH TYPE                                COST
Biomorphs
  Flats, Splicers                           High
  Octomorphs                         Expensive (30,000+)
  Furies, Ghosts, Remade             Expensive (40,000+)
  Futuras                            Expensive (50,000+)
  All others                              Expensive
Pods
  Workers, Pleasure Pods                    High
  Novacrabs                          Expensive (30,000+)
Synthmorphs
  Cases                                   Moderate
  Synths, Dragonflies                        High
  Slitheroids, Swarmanoids                Expensive
  Flexbots                           Expensive (30,000+)
  Arachnoids                         Expensive (40,000+)
  Reapers                            Expensive (50,000+)
Positive morph traits                  +500 per CP
Negative morph traits                  –200 per CP


 TRADE-IN
 For those who wish to leave their old morph behind
 permanently, trade-ins on current morphs are an
 option. The high demand for bodies means that a buyer
 is almost always available unless the gamemaster finds
 extenuating circumstances. Morphs may be traded in
 for the value shown on the Morph Costs table (ad-
 justed for any positive or negative traits), less a 10%
 physical exam and finder's fee. This is either paid to the
 morph broker in cred or rendered as a favor using rep.

  PATRON PROVISIONING
 Characters on missions for rich or influential patrons
 may have morphs provided for them. Normally
 such provisions are made for the duration of a job,
 although less commonly the morph itself might be
 payment for services rendered. Gamemasters are
 encouraged to be creative with such arrangements,
 though players should be advised that such bargains
 can quickly turn Faustian.

  BLACK MARKET MORPHS
 Black market body traders promise to provide the
 buyer with morphs and upgrades of choice regardless
 of a habitat's laws against weapons or implants, in
 addition to bypassing standard arrival registration
 via darkcasting. Illegal morphs usually come with a
 price markup (+25% at least), whereas used morphs
 with unsavory backgrounds (and traits) can usually be
 acquired on the cheap (–25%).

  INDENTURE
 Characters who find themselves too destitute to
 afford a new morph can strike a deal for indentured
 service—a “deal” that is rarely advantageous to the
%%% 280.txt %%%
   new indenture. Typical contracts require years of in-     closely monitored and tracked, and the hypercorps are
   dentured labor—terraforming Mars, herding comets,         not above sending ego hunters to retrieve a runaway.
   asteroid mining, constructing habitats, colonizing
   exoplanets, etc.—in exchange for a cheap synthetic        PUBLIC RESLEEVING
   morph or splicer at the end of the term. Gamemasters      Some locales, notably Titan, have a well-developed
   may use their discretion in offering such terms, though   public resleeving infrastructure intended to provide a
   in many cases the terms offered will temporarily or       body to anyone who needs one. Morphs provided are
   permanently end the character's career as a free agent.   usually unremarkable cases, synths, or splicers with
   Hypercorps using indentured labor are notorious for       no Positive traits or optional implants. Anyone hold-
   changing the terms at a whim, extending the service       ing citizenship in a locale with public resleeving may
   period, or slamming the indenture with a slew of          apply for a body. Wait times are between a month and
   hidden and outrageous charges that were not made          two years, with Reputation influencing wait times at
   clear up front. Characters may, of course, enter into     the gamemaster's discretion.
   such service fully intending to grab their morph and
   run at the first opportunity, but the hypercorps are      RENTING MORPHS
   very protective of their investments. Indentures are      For temporary visits where an infomorph won't do,
                                                             morphs may be leased rather than bought. The cost
                                                             to rent a morph is 1% of its cost per day, plus a Low

 USTOM-GROWN OR                                              charge for resleeving. This cost includes rental insur-
                                                             ance (see below). If the rental insurance is waived

DESIGNED MORPHS                                              (not always possible unless you have a good Rep), the
                                                             rental cost may be reduced by half.
me people are very particular about their morphs.              Characters who are leasing a morph may also use
 them, nothing “off the shelf” will do, even if it's         their previous morph as collateral. In this case, deduct
customized model tricked out with specific im-                the cost of the character's current morph from the
ants, traits, and biosculpting. Instead, they desire         rental morph before calculating the 1% cost per day,
mething unique, something that must be specially             with a minimal rental cost of 10 credits per day.
own or designed.
 n the case of biomorphs, this can mean several              PENAL LEASE
 ngs. Usually it means that the patron desires a             Characters visiting the inner system or Jovian
ry specific set of genetic traits. This could be traits       Republic may be able to lease morphs belonging
 m their original genetic lineage, traits copied from        to prisoners. In most jurisdictions, criminals are
meone they idolized or honored, genes artfully               sentenced to terms in rehabilitative simulspace with
afted by a renowned genetic designer, or mystery             a stipulation that the prisoner's morph becomes
 its purchased at great expense from the Factors or          state property during their term of incarceration.
tracted from a lost TITAN lab. Alternatively, it could       Morphs acquired this way often have complicated
ean the client seeks something more specific, such            histories but also tend to have modifications useful
 an exact duplicate clone of their original body.            to Firewall agents. Conversely, characters who find
While it is possible to put an existing morph in a           themselves imprisoned may be subject to having
 aling vat and alter its genetics with metamorph-            their body leased out during incarceration.
g nanovirii in a matter of days, these procedures              The effects of taking a penal lease are at the dis-
e difficult and prone to disaster. In many cases, it          cretion of the gamemaster. A character may have
preferred to simply grow the desired clone from              to pull some strings with their Reputation in order
 atch, though even with accelerated growth this              to lease such a morph, especially if it has restricted
kes from 1.5 to 2 years (or 6 months to 1 year in            or illegal modifi cations. Negative traits, cases of
e case of pods). Nevertheless, some hyperelites              mistaken identity, and unfortunate encounters with
 ve taken steps to ensure that the morph they                friends and associates of the morph's former oc-
 sire is available at all likely egocast destinations.       cupant are among the possible drawbacks to this
Though rarer, custom synthmorphs are sometimes               type of arrangement. On the up side, penal leases
ught after, usually by people who wish to showcase           may reduce costs for both leasing and insuring the
 ique or artistic robotic designs, but sometimes also        morph, again subject to the gamemaster's discretion.
  engineers or agents who are field-testing proto-
pes. Assuming blueprints are available, such models          RENTAL INSURANCE
n be constructed in a matter of hours or days.               Leased morphs must be covered by an insurance
Aside from time, the largest barrier to custom and           policy, which often restricts the character from
 ique morph designs is typically cost. Ultimately it is      breaking the law or taking the morph anywhere
e gamemaster's decision on what expenses such mea-           too dangerous or lawless. Characters may purchase
 es entail—typically starting at Expensive and moving        hazard insurance that will cover taking the morph
 —or even whether they are possible at all.          ■       into certain dangerous situations, but this will
                                                             double the rental price at minimum.
%%% 281.txt %%%
   If a character suffers extensive organic damage or
death while insured, the insurance will cover 80%
of the morph's cost, meaning that the character is
expected to pay the other 20%. If they cannot pay,
their possessions or their stored morph may be
seized in payment.
   If a character violates their insurance policy by
intentionally putting themself in harm's way above
the threat level at which the policy was purchased,
without first communicating with and rendering pay-
ment to the insurer, the policy may be declared void.
If the leased morph dies under a voided policy and
the character cannot pay to replace it, their posses-
sions and stored morph may be subject to seizure.
   Seizure takes different forms depending upon the
local economy and legal system. In hypercorp space,
it is a straightforward seizure of liquid assets, in-
cluding forced uploading if the character's morph is
seized. Elsewhere, the character is more likely to end
up owing a lot of favors or taking severe hits to their
reputation, but they are unlikely to undergo forced
uploading or outright physical seizure of their morph.



IDENTITY
Given the nature of resleeving technologies, identity
is a fluid concept in Eclipse Phase. Transhumans are
used to the idea of identifying people by how they
look or even by their biometric data, but this is no
longer a certified method. What you look like may
drastically change from one day to the next. You
may see an olympian you recognize, but perhaps it's
been awhile, so you're no longer certain that it's the
same person still in that morph. If you're sleeved in a
popular off-the-rack morph, there may be hundreds
of other cloned morphs that look exactly like you out
there—perhaps useful if you desire to blend in. Simi-
larly, security services can no longer rely on biometric
technologies. Forensics may be able to identify an indi-
vidual morph's presence at a crime scene, but proving
who was in that morph at the time is another matter.
   Identity is, of course, tied to ego, and various
authorities have instituted verification and security
measures based on this. Within the inner system, each
ego is given an ID number, which is used to validate
their identity, citizenship, legal status, credit accounts,
licensing, etc. This ego ID is verifiable by the person's
brainwave patterns, which remain the same even
when resleeving. When an ego uploads, the upload-
ing service is required to incorporate this ego ID into
the person's backup/infomorph. Likewise, when that
person resleeves, the service handling the procedure
is required by law to verify the ego's ID before down-
loading. The ego ID is then hardcoded into the morph
itself in the form of a nanotattoo on the tip of the per-
son's index finger. This nanotat can be easily scanned
at security checkpoints to verify identity.
   Though efficient, this system is far from perfect. For
one, ID record-keeping is far from standardized and
varies drastically from habitat to habitat. Most do not
share records with each other unless they are part of the
same political alliance in order to protect their citizens'
privacy. For example, Lunar-Lagrange Alliance stations
do not share citizenship ID data with the Planetary
Consortium, though they do share with each other.
  On top of this, many identity records were lost
during the Fall, a situation that was undoubtedly ex-
ploited by those who preferred to erase their past or
adopt a new persona. These all make for a situation
where identity records are patchwork at best. Officials
must also rely on the security of other habitats for ID
verification. If a person egocasts to Nectar on Mars
from Qing Long in the Martian Trojans, and the
Nectar officials have no record of this person, they
can only trust that the Qing Long officials did their
job when verifying the subject's ID and background.
  To make matters worse, many autonomist habitats
operate without identity checks altogether. Though
some ID measures are still used, both to prevent
reputation system gaming and to be able to identify
bodies in the case of death, these uses are significantly
more lax and few records are kept. Therefore, when
autonomists and the like egocast to habitats that re-
quire ID, they are assigned a temporary ID for the du-
ration of their stay (and sometimes any future visits).

IDENTITY VERIFICATION
There are three ways to verify someone's identity:
nanotat scan, brainwave scan, and checking the cryp-
tographic hash on a digital mind.

NANOTAT SCANS
Special encoded nanobots are used to create a small
nanotat on a person's index finger. These nanobots
contain encoded information that includes their name
and identity, brainwave pattern, citizenship/legal status,
credit account number, insurance information, and
licenses. Depending on the local habitat laws, it may
include other information such as criminal history,
travel history, restricted implants, employment records,
and so on. This nanotat may be read by anyone with
a special ID scanner that reads the nanobot encoding.
   ID nanotats include information on the company
that did the resleeving, so that the data may be ac-
cessed and verified with their records online. The data
on the nanotat is also cryptographically signed with
the company's public key, meaning that anyone who
checks the data and the signature online can tell if the
data has been altered.

BRAINWAVE SCANS
Brainwave scans are one of the few types of biometric
prints that stay with an ego no matter what morph it
is in. They are impractical for most security purposes
as they require a scan with a combination electroen-
cephalogram and neuroimaging device, referred to as
a brainprint scanner, which takes approximately 5
minutes. This device measures the subject's baseline
brainwave pattern as well as the subject's brainwave
signature responses when they think certain thoughts
%%% 282.txt %%%
or sense certain patterns. These scans are all but
impossible to fool, however, barring hacking of the
brainprint scanner itself, and so are considered quite
reliable. For this reason they are occasionally used in
high-security facilities.
   It is worth noting that infection by some variants
of the Exsurgent virus, notably the Watts-Macleod
strain (p. 367), sometimes alters a person's brainwave
patterns, but not in every case.

DIGITAL CODE
Digital ID codes are often incorporated into backups and
infomorphs. Not only does this help identify who the
backup belongs to, but it serves as an electronic signature
for verifying ID when the backup is to be resleeved. This
digital code typically contains the same information as
the nanotat ID, and is signed with a cryptographic hash
that makes it difficult to forge and which can be verified
online. AIs and AGIs also feature such built-in codes.

CIRCUMVENTING ID CHECKS
Firewall sentinels and clandestine agents often have a
need to hide or alter their identities. While ID system
are challenging, they are not insurmountable.

FAKE IDS
The easiest way to bypass security checks is to establish
a fake ID. Given the patchwork nature of identity re-
cords and the lack of any centralized authority, this is
not very difficult. Numerous crime syndicates and even
some autonomist groups maintain a thriving ID fabrica-
tion business, often with complete histories and medical
covers for implants that might be restricted or illegal.
   These IDs are usually registered with habitats that are
either known criminal havens, have autonomist sym-
pathies, or are isolated and remote. Though the ID is
actually verifiable and registered with these stations, the
potential shady origins of such IDs is known to most
inner system authorities and so the character may be
exposed to extra scrutiny or monitoring. Fake IDs may
be acquired that are registered with more respected au-
thorities, but this often requires a much higher expense
or connections to hypercorp clandestine operations.
   Black market darkcast and resleeving options offer
fake IDs as a matter of course.

ALTERING NANOTAT IDS
Special nanobot treatments may be manufactured
to erase, rewrite, or replace nanotat IDs. Erasing a
nanotat is easy, but not having one is a crime and im-
mediate grounds for suspicion in many habitats. Re-
writing a nanotat is also easy, though this means that
the nanotat will fail its authorization online unless the
encryption has also been cracked (p. 253). Replacing
a nanotat ID with a fake one is just as possible, and is
part of the process of acquiring a fake ID.

DIGITAL ID TAMPERING
Digital ID codes may also be tampered with, though like
nanotat IDs this will mean that the ID fails online verifi-
cation unless the encryption is also defeated (p. 253).
LIFE IN SPACE
Transhumanity is not just a spacefaring race, it is
also largely space-dwelling. While a substantial por-
tion of transhumanity inhabits planetary bodies like
Mars, Luna, Venus, and the moons of the gas giants,
the balance live in a variety of space habitats, ranging
from the old-fashioned O'Neill cylinders of the inner
system to the Cole bubbles of the outer system.

SPACE HABITATS
Space habitats come in many sizes and configura-
tions, from survivalist outposts designed to support
ten or fewer people to miniature worlds in resource-
rich areas housing as many as ten million people. In
heavily settled regions of space, such as Martian orbit,
habitats may be integrated into local infrastructure,
relying to some extent on supply shipments from other
orbital installations.
   More commonly, especially in the outer system,
habitats are independent entities. This usually means
that in addition to the main space station, the habitat
is attended by a host of support structures, including
zero-g factories, gas and volatiles refineries, foundries,
defense satellites, and mining bases.
    Habitats—especially large ones—sometimes have
visitors, as well. Majors habitats are crossroads in
space. In addition to scheduled bulk freighter stops,
they may have hangers-on such as scum barges, pros-
pectors, or out-of-work autonomous bot swarms.
   Many habitats have some form of transportation
network. This is most common in large cylindrical
habitats with centrifugal gravity. Common solutions
for public transit include monorail trains, trams, and
dirigible skybuses. Common personal transit options
included bicycles, scooters, motorcycles, and micro-
light aircraft, with larger vehicles being uncommon
and usually reserved for official use.
   Most habitats with large interior spaces also use aug-
mented reality overlays to create consensual hallucina-
tions of a sky and clouds, to which most residents keep
their AR channels tuned. One would think that in space,
talking about the weather would have disappeared from
transhumanity's repertoire of small talk, but the habit
persists—only the weather discussed is usually virtual (if
it's not real “weather”—solar flare activity and the like).

CLUSTER COLONY
Clusters are the most common form of microgravity
habitat. Clusters consist of networks of spherical or
rectangular modules made of light materials and con-
nected by floatways. Typically business and residential
modules are clustered around arterial floatways and in-
frastructure modules such as farms, power, and waste
recycling. Limited artificial gravity areas may exists,
frequently parks or other public places and specialized
modules like resleeving facilities (morphs often keep
better when stored in gravity). Arterial floatways in
large clusters may have “fast lanes” where a constantly
moving conveyor of grab-loops speeds people along.
%%% 283.txt %%%
   Clusters are most commonly found in volatile-rich environments
like the Trojans and the ring systems of the gas giants (particularly
Saturn). Clusters are rare in the Jovian system because shielding a
cluster of individual modules rather than one large station from
Jupiter's intense magnetosphere is hideously inefficient.
   Cluster colonies can have anywhere from 50 to 250,000 inhabitants.

COLE BUBBLES
Cole bubbles (or “bubbleworlds”) are found mostly in the main
asteroid belt, where the large nickel-iron asteroids used to construct
them are abundant. Bubbleworlds are less common in the Trojans
and Greeks, where crusty ice asteroids predominate. A Cole bubble
is similar in many respects to an O'Neill cylinder, but there are no
longitudinal windows. Sunlight instead enters through axial mirror
arrays. The bubbleworld is also constructed very differently, using a
large solar array to heat a pocket of water inside of a metal asteroid
so that the metal expands. Rotating the asteroid causes the mal-
leable material to form a cylinder, which is then capped off and the
water drained. The inside can then be pressurized, built out, and
planted. Cole bubbles can also be spun for gravity, according to the
whims of the inhabitants, though the gravity lowers as you near the
poles of the bubble, with zero gravity at the axis of rotation.
   Cole bubbles are among the largest structures transhumanity has
created in space. The largest Cole habitat, Extropia, has a popula-
tion of 10 million.

HAMILTON CYLINDERS
Hamilton cylinders are a new technology. There are only three fully
operational Hamilton cylinders in the system, but the design shows
great promise and is likely to be widely adopted over the coming
period. Hamilton cylinders are grown using a complex genomic
algorithm that orchestrates nanoscale building machines. These
nanobots build the habitat slowly over time, a process more like
growing than construction.
   Similar to O'Neill cylinders and Cole bubbles, a Hamilton cylin-
der is a cylindrical habitat rotating on its long axis to provide grav-
ity. Two of the known Hamilton cylinders orbit Saturn in positions
skimming the rings near the Cassini division. From this position,
they can graze on silicates and volatiles using harvester ships.
   None of the currently-operating Hamilton cylinders have grown
to full size yet, but estimates say they could each house up to 3
million people.

O'NEILL CYLINDERS
Found mostly in the orbits of Earth, Luna, Venus, and Mars, O'Neill
cylinders were among transhumanity's first large space habitat de-
signs. O'Neill cylinders are no longer built, having been replaced
by more efficient designs, but are still home to tens of millions of
transhumans. O'Neill cylinders were constructed from metals mined
on Luna or Mercury, Lunar volatiles (including Lunar polar ice),
and asteroidal silicates.
  A typical O'Neill habitat is thirty-five kilometers long, eight ki-
lometers in diameter, and rotates around its long axis at a speed
sufficient for centrifugal force to create one Earth gravity on the
inner wall of the cylinder. Smaller cylinders exist, though these
usually feature lower gravity (typically Mars standard). Cylinders
are sometimes joined together, end-to-end, for extra long habitats.
A spaceport is situated at one end on the rotational axis of the
cylinder (where there is no gravity). Arrivals by space use a lift or
microlight launch pad to get down to the habitat floor.
%%% 284.txt %%%
   The inside of an O'Neill cylinder has six alternating
strips of ground and window running from one cap
of the cylinder to the other. One narrow end of an
O'Neill cylinder points toward the sun. The opposite
end is the mooring point for three immense reflectors
angled to reflect sunlight into the windows. Smart
materials coating the windows and reflectors prevent
fluctuations in solar activity from delivering too much
heat. The air inside the cylinder and its metal super-
structure provide radiation shielding.
   The land in most O'Neill cylinders is one-third
agricultural (a combination of food vats and high-
yield photosynthetic crops), one-third park land, and
one-third mixed use residential and business. O'Neill
habitats have a day and night cycle regulated by the
position of the external mirrors. The business and
residential sections of the cylinder usually alternate
with the park land over two of the strips of land;
cropland usually takes up the third. Bridges cross
the windows every kilometer or so, linking the land
strips. The interior climate, the architectural style of
the structures, and the types of vegetation and fauna
present vary with the tastes of the habitats' designers.
   Depending upon size, O'Neill cylinders can house
from 25,000 to 2 million people.

TIN CANS
Antique research stations and survivalist prospector
outposts often fit this description. Tin can habitats
are only a few notches up from the early 21st-century
International Space Station. Tin cans usually consist
of one or more modules connected to solar panels
and other utilities by an open truss. Deluxe models
feature actual floatways or crawlways between
modules, while barebones setups require a vacsuit or
vac-resistant morph to go from room to room. Food
growing capacity is severely limited and there may be
no farcasters, but fabricators are available, as well as
mooring for shuttles and perhaps prospecting craft.
  Tin cans rarely house more than 50 people.

TORUSES
Interchangeably called toruses, toroids, donuts, and
wheels, these circular space habitats were a cheap
alternative to the O'Neill cylinder used for smaller
installations. Like O'Neill cylinders, toruses are seldom
constructed anymore, but many are still encountered in
the inner system, particularly in Earth and Lunar orbit.
  A toroidal habitat looks like a donut 1 kilometer in
diameter, rotating on great spokes. There is a zero-g
spaceport at the wheel's hub. Visitors take a lift down
one of the spokes to the level of the donut, where
rotation creates one Earth gravity.
  The plan of toroidal habitats varies greatly, as many
were designed for specific scientific or military purposes
and only later taken over as habitats by entrepreneurs
or squatters. Many have a succession of decks in the
donut. Most of those designed for long-term self-
sufficient habitation have smart material-covered glass
windows for growing plants along much of the inside
surface of the torus. Toroidal habitats equipped for
farming normally face the sun in a direction perpen-
dicular to their rotational axis, but then use a slow pro-
cessional wobble of that axis to create a day/night cycle.
  Toruses were usually built to accommodate small
crews of 500 or fewer people, though some larger
ones exist, able to house 50,000. A few rare double-
toruses also exist, like two large wheels spinning in
opposite directions, joined at the axis.

IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
How characters gain entry to a habitat and what type
of screening they're likely to undergo depends upon
how they arrive. Some habitats are close to other
settlements, while others are physically isolated by the
vast, empty distances of interplanetary space.
   Habitats in dense planetary systems receive most of
their visitors via conventional space travel. Immigra-
tion and customs infrastructure is geared toward re-
ceiving visitors via their spaceport, and the processing
of arrivals is in most ways analogous to a twentieth
century airport. Isolated habitats, on the other hand,
tend to receive almost all of their visitors via egocast.

PHYSICAL ARRIVALS
Arrivals by spacecraft undergo, at minimum, an ego
ID check, scans to detect pathogens, hostile nanobots,
explosives, or radiation, and an inspection of their
personal effects. Some habitats go farther, including
rigorous secondary screenings using scout nano-
swarms, scans of all electronic systems for malware,
and/or aggressive interrogation of a fork of the subject.
Even autonomist enclaves enforce automated scans for
anything that might pose a danger to the habitat or
any signs of hypercorp saboteur efforts.
   Restricted goods vary according to local legalities.
Many habitats, particularly those controlled by auton-
omist or criminal factions, allow personal weaponry
as long as its nothing you can use to blow a hole in
the structure or indiscriminately kill dozens of people.
Others, notably the Jovian Republic and hypercorp
stations, disallow lethal weapons of all kinds, except
for people who have acquired special permits and au-
thorization (sometimes available by bribing the right
people or pulling favors with rep). Nonlethal weapons
are generally allowed. Other restricted items may
include nanofabricators, nanoswarms, malware and
hacker software, drugs and narcoalgorithms, certain
types of XP recordings, covert operations tools, and
so on. Certain types of morphs may also be restricted,
such as reapers, furies, or uplifts.
   Certain habitats may insist that visitors—or at
least the ones they don't like the looks of—submit to
specific forms of monitoring or surveillance for the
duration of their stay. This might include taggant
nanoswarms, hosting a police AI in your mesh inserts,
or even physical tailing by an armed security drone.
Other stations will require that their visitors leave a
fork as a form of collateral at the door—in case they
commit a crime, the fork can be interrogated.
%%% 285.txt %%%
  Finally, though rare, some habitats go so far as to
charge all visitors an “air tax”—a fee for using the
station's publicly available resources while they are
present. This is generally only common in isolated
habitats with strained resources, and is considered
especially obnoxious by most autonomists.
   Some syndicates run a good business in smuggling
certain goods or even people into habitats. This is gen-
erally accomplished through bribed security personnel,
but is also sometimes handled as falsified credentials
that will allow the subject to breeze past security
checks. Such services are typically quite expensive.
  For those hoping to gain quiet and unobserved
access, there is always the option of taking a space-
walk and trying to break in through an unattended
airlock. Such attempts are quite often dangerous and
futile, as most habitats have dedicated sensor and
security systems to monitor their exterior surface and
in particular any access points. Still, it is a possibility
for a resourceful team with a skilled hacker, though
armed sentry bots are a particular danger.

ELECTRONIC ARRIVALS
Arrivals by egocast are sometimes interviewed by
habitat authorities in a simulspace before resleeving.
Depending upon the habitat's attitude toward civil
rights, this process can be relatively reasonable or
quite invasive. A minimal entry inspection includes an
ID check, a brief interview with a customs AI, and a
review of the specs of the morph into which the ar-
riving ego plans to resleeve. Habitats with draconian
immigration measures may use harsh psychosurgery
interrogation techniques on suspect infomorphs. Ego-
cast backups have little recourse to avoid this treat-
ment—station authorities can simply file them away
in cold storage if they choose—so it is wise to investi-
gate custom procedures before you send yourself over.
   Because many people, particularly autonomists and
brinkers, don't appreciate this kind of reception, vari-
ous uploading services have stepped in to provide pre-
customs resleeving for characters traveling to habitats
with suspect screening methods. For often-exorbitant
fees, the traveler egocasts into an extraterritorial sub-
station close to their intended destination, resleeves
there, and then travels to their destination by rocket.
   Various darkcast services, normally run by estab-
lished crime syndicates, sometimes offer an alternative
method of egocasting in and possibly even resleeving.
Darkcast services are quite expensive, however, and
the character is at the mercy of the syndicate opera-
tors. In rare cases, some political factions or even hy-
percorps might operate their own darkcast systems,
which a character with good networking skills might
be able to take advantage of.

SPACE TRAVEL
In some circumstances, characters will prefer to travel
physically through space rather than egocasting. In
Eclipse Phase, spacecraft are primarily dealt with as a
setting environment rather than a vehicle/gear to use.
Spacecraft largely pilot themselves via the onboard AI.
Though characters can also take over with their Pilot:
Spacecraft skill, the situation rarely calls for it.

LOCAL TRAVEL
In densely inhabited planetary systems such as Mars
and Saturn, most travel between cities, surface stations,
and orbital habitats within 200,000 kilometers is by
small hydrogen-fueled (or sometimes methane-fueled)
rockets. This form of travel is incredibly cheap, very
fast, and avoids the occasional personality glitches
that crop up during egocasting. LOTVs (lander and
orbital transfer vehicles, p. 348) are commonly used.
Spacecraft leaving a planetary body need to be able to
generate enough thrust to escape the gravity well (see
Escaping Gravity Wells, p. 346).

DISTANCE TRAVEL
For distances of 200,000 to 1.5 million kilometers,
somewhat larger (and more expensive) fusion- and
plasma-drive craft make regular runs. Nuclear electric
ion drives were once used on some of these routes,
but the poor efficiency of these fission systems and the
need for radioactive heavy metal reaction mass means
that they are almost never used anymore. Faster anti-
matter-drive couriers are also commonly used. These
ships lack the thrust to escape from the gravity wells
of large planets or moons, so they station themselves
in orbit and use smaller ships (typically LOTVs) with
higher thrust to transport people to and from the
planetary surface.
  For distances beyond 1.5 million kilometers, almost
everyone uses egocasting

SPACE TRAVEL BASICS
Spacecraft use various types of reaction drives (see
Spacecraft Propulsion, p. 347), meaning that they burn
fuel (reaction mass) and direct the heated output in
one direction, which pushes the spacecraft in the oppo-
site direction. Travel over any major distance typically
involves a period of high-acceleration burn for several
hours at the beginning of the flight, where up to half of
the reaction mass is spent to drive up the craft's veloc-
ity. The ship then coasts for the majority of the flight at
that speed, until it approaches its destination, where it
flips over and burns an equal amount of reaction mass
in the opposite direction to decrease velocity.
   Though some craft burn half their reaction mass
to get up to the best speed possible, this doesn't leave
much room for additional maneuvering or emergen-
cies. Many craft therefore only burn up to a quarter
or a third of their fuel in initial accelerations, so they
have some to spare in case they need it. A few tricks
can be used to save fuel and build speed, such as sling-
shotting around the gravity wells of larger planets or
aerobraking in a planet's upper atmosphere.
   Travel times between locations are constantly
changing as various bodies move in their orbits
around the solar system. Within a cluster or planetary
system, travel takes a matter of hours. Within the
%%% 286.txt %%%
inner system, travel can take days or weeks. Travel to,
from, or within the outer system can take much longer,
and is usually a matter of several months.
  Most ships operate at zero-g, except for a few larger
craft that are able to spin habitat modules for low
gravity. Periods of high-acceleration also produce
temporary gravity in a downward direction, towards
the burn.
   Space is a valuable commodity on board spacecraft,
so room is often tight. Sleeping and personal quarters
are rarely bigger than large closets, just enough room
for a sleeping bag and personal effects. Depending
on the size of the craft, there may be a communal
recreation area. The crew tend to only be busy at the
beginning and end of a trip, when they must deal with
acceleration/deceleration and maneuvering around
other space traffic. The rest of the trip they spend
dealing with repairs or otherwise killing time, often
by accessing XP or VR simulations or playing AR
games. While spacecraft have their own local mesh
network, they are usually too far to interact with the
mesh networks of other habitats without significant
communications lag, so they must make do with
their own archive of entertainment options. Many
long-haul ships are crewed by hibernoid morphs, who
hunker down for a long nap.

SPACESHIP COMBAT
Combat in space tends to take place over long dis-
tances using massive beam weapons, railguns, and
missiles. It also tends to be nasty, brutish, and short.
Significant damage to a vessel can cause atmospheric
decompression, killing any biomorph crew who aren't
suited up and strapped down.
  For the most part, it is recommended that space
combat be treated as a plot device, part of the back-
ground story that helps create drama and tension,
rather than an event that characters actively partici-
pate in. This is not to say the characters cannot play a
role in the combat, or that their actions will have no
effect on the outcome. They may become involved in
damage control, negotiate with hostile forces, repel
boarders, target weapons with Gunnery skill, stage a
mutiny, attempt to hack the networks of approach-
ing vessels, escape out the airlock, hide out while the
pirates sack the ship, or similar affairs. It is recom-
mended, however, that gamemasters steer clear of
space combat situations that could easily lead to the
whole team dying due to a few bad dice rolls.



NANOFABRICATION
In order to create an object in a nanofabricator
(whether a cornucopia machine, fabber, or maker; see
p. 327), three things are needed: raw materials, blue-
prints, and time.

RAW MATERIALS
Raw materials are generally easy to acquire, as most
nanofabricators are equipped with disassembler units
that will break down just about anything into its con-
stituent molecules. Feedstock may also be purchased
(at a cost of Trivial). Many habitats route their recy-
cling and waste products directly into disassemblers.

BLUEPRINTS
Most nanofabricators are pre-loaded with blueprints
for general purpose items: food, simple clothing, basic
tools, etc. Blueprints for other goods may be acquired
in several ways:

 - They may be purchased online (legally or on the
   black market).
 - They may be found for free online (see below).
 - They may be acquired with Rep, following the
   usual rules for social networking (p. 285).
 - They may stolen (usually by hacking a mesh site
   or a nanofabricator containing such plans).
 - They may be self-programmed (see below).

  Once the blueprints are acquired, they are simply
loaded into the nanofabricator.

OPEN SOURCE BLUEPRINTS
Blueprints for many goods may be found for free
online, disseminated by an active open source
software movement. The availability of such plans
typically depends on the local mesh. In autonomist
habitats, a simple Research Test is likely to turn up the
open source blueprints you need (applying modifiers
for unusual items). In more restricted habitats, open
source blueprints may be harder to find, as they will
be securely hidden from the prying eyes of the authori-
ties. In this case, the character will need to use their
Rep to gain access, bribe a local hacker group, or do
something similar.
   Note that restricted nanofabricators may not accept
open source blueprints (see Blueprint Restrictions).

BLUEPRINT RESTRICTIONS
Some nanofabricators are equipped with pre-pro-
grammed restrictions not to accept blueprints for re-
stricted items (such as weapons) or non-licensed items
(such as black market or open source blueprints).
These restrictions may be circumvented by hacking
the nanofabricator and re-programming it, following
normal hacking rules (p. 254).

PROGRAMMING BLUEPRINTS
A dedicated character may simply decide to program
their own blueprints, though this is a time-consuming
endeavor. To do so, the character must make a Pro-
gramming: Nanofabrication Test with a timeframe of
one week per cost level of the item. For example, a
Trivial cost item takes 1 week, a Low cost item takes 2
weeks, a Moderate item 3 weeks, and so on. Academ-
ics: Nanotechnology skill or a skill appropriate to the
object's design may be used as a complementary skill
(p. 173) for this test. A fork or muse may also be as-
signed to such a programming task.
%%% 287.txt %%%
TIME
Once the raw materials and blueprints are in, most nanofabrica-
tion is simply a matter of time. The exact timeframe to create an
object varies, but roughly approximates 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for Trivial, 2 for Low, 3 for Moderate, etc.). The
gamemaster may feel free to modify this period as appropriate for
the object.

THE PROGRAMMING TEST
Nanofabrication is typically handled as a Programming: Nanofab-
rication Test. In most cases, this can be treated as a Simple Success
Test (p. 118), with a failed roll simply indicating that the item has
some minor imperfections, or perhaps took longer to make.
   In some cases, the gamemaster may call for an actual Success Test,
meaning that failure is more of a possibility. This should only be
done for items that are exotic, extremely complicated, or for which
the blueprints are incomplete or otherwise suspect. This test can also
be made if the raw materials are limited.
   The character operating the nanofabricator can make this test or
it can be left up to the nanofabricator's built-in AI. Most such Such
AIs have a Programming: Nanofabrication skill of 30 (see AIs and
Muses, p. 331).



REPUTATION AND SOCIAL NETWORKS
“Once upon a time, there was a planet so incredibly primitive that its
 inhabitants still used money. That planet is called ‘Mars.'”
   —Professor Magnus Ming, Titan Autonomous University

   The conflict between market capitalism and other forms of eco-
nomics is one of transhumanity's last great culture wars, and it's
still being fought. Transhumanity's expansion into the solar system
created myriad opportunities to experiment with new economic sys-
tems. Many failed, but the reputation economies of the outer system
have proven both utilitarian and robust in a way that no previous
challenger to market capitalism has managed.
   The reputation economy, sometimes called the gift economy or
open economy, is one in which the material plenty created by nano-
fabrication and the longevity granted by uploading and backups
have removed considerations of supply versus scarcity from the
economic equation—destroying classical economics in the process.
   The regimented societies of the inner system and the Jovian
Junta have used societal controls and careful regulation of the
technologies of abundance on their populations, thus keeping to a
transitional economy system that is largely an outgrowth of classi-
cal economics. No one could get away with doing this in the outer
system. In the Trojans and Greeks, much of the belt, free Jupiter, and
anywhere outward from Saturn, the reputation economy rules.
   How did this happen? For one thing, money is a nuisance when
you're an autonomous member of an autonomous collective whose
nearest three neighbors (each 100,000 kilometers away) are also
autonomous collectives. All of you are almost completely self-
sufficient in terms of material resources. You have a fleet of robots
that harvest water, volatiles, reactor mass, metals, and silicates. You
have a nanofabricator to make all of your small items, a community
factory for large ones, and a machine shop where you can build
anything else—with help and advice from an AI with the combined
knowledge and experience of a top flight engineering team, if you
even need it. You grow your own food.
%%% 288.txt %%%
  Money is for people who don't know how to take
care of themselves. Transhumanity is only a few de-
cades away from being a mature Type I Kardashev
civilization, having largely mastered the material
resources of its own solar system. A character from
the outer system most likely finds the whole concept
of money an embarrassment.
   However, material abundance hasn't eliminated
the value of certain goods and services. A transhu-
man's lunch might be free, but innovative ideas, new
designs, health care, sex, and dirty work don't grow
in fabricators. What if you need gene therapy on your
morph to grow infrared sensing cells on your face?
How about someone to assassinate your renegade
beta fork after she set off a hallucinogen grenade at
your gallery opening and kidnapped your boyfriend?
What if you really need a spanking? You call on your
social network. If your network is sufficiently deep
and numerous, and your reputation is good enough,
someone will help you out.
   In the inner system, the reputation economy doesn't
replace money for the exchange of goods and services,
but it does hold sway over the network of favors and
influence. Calling on contacts, getting information,
and making sure you're in the best place to see and be
seen all involve calling on your social network.

SOCIAL NETWORKS
Social networks represent the people you know, and
the people they know, and so on. It starts with your
friends and family, spreads out to your co-workers,
neighbors, and colleagues, and expands all the way
out to your acquaintances, from the neo-hominid
waitron at your favorite cafe to the sylph you flirt
with at the club. In the always-online, fully-meshed
universe of Eclipse Phase, this goes even further,
encompassing all of the people you've linked to via
social mesh networks, everyone who watches your
blog/lifelog/updates, and everyone you interact with
on various mesh forums. Now add in the friend-of-a-
friend factor, and everyone has an impressive ability
to reach out to people they know, people they sort of
know, and people you don't know but who are some-
how linked to you in one degree or another.
   Of course, social networks are not homogeneous.
Among the ever-diversifying ranks of transhumanity,
there is a tendency to coalesce around various shared
characteristics, whether those be cultural background,
personal interests, professional ties, local connections,
political affiliations, subcultural obsessions, or simply
common interest from being part of the same sub-
species clade. The social network of an info-anarchist
hacker is likely to bear little resemblance to that of
a hypercorp socialite or an isolate brinker. Neverthe-
less, social networks quite frequently overlap, often
in unexpected and interesting ways. Most people can
be considered members of several different types of
social networks. This overlap is what links disparate
groupings of transhumans together.
NETWORKING
Just being connected, of course, doesn't mean you have
several thousand idle transhumans at your beck and
call. If you hope to gather the latest gossip, get advice
from an expert, find someone who can fix your prob-
lems, acquire a piece of gray market tech, or spread a
meme, you need to know both who to talk to in that
social network and how to go about getting what you
need, especially if you hope to keep things quiet and
not raise any flags.
   This is where your Networking: [Field] skills come
in (p. 182). Networking represents your ability to ma-
neuver through this web of personal and impersonal
connections to find who and what you need. This
could be handled by word-of-mouth, posting the right
queries in the right places on the mesh, monitoring
the right personal profiles and forums, harnessing the
power of the mob with crowdsourcing, or any number
of similar creative tactics.
   Each field you have in Networking represents a
particular network grouping, a common interest that
ties people together. Most of these fields are based
on factions (Autonomists, Hypercorp, etc.) and tie
into a special reputation network (see the Reputation
Networks table, p. 287). At the gamemaster's discre-
tion, other groupings of people could be connected
through these skills and rep systems. For example,
artists and journalists of all stripes can fall under
the Networking: Media skill and f-rep, no matter if
they are autonomist or hypercorp. Likewise, being a
diverse group, brinkers do not universally fall into any
of the categories, and are instead spread out between
them. If the gamemaster and players agree, other
Networking fields and rep networks may be added,
representing other spheres of interest, such as AR
Games, Sports, Slash Fiction, etc.
   The exact uses for which you may exploit your social
networks are noted below. While in some cases the de-
fining element is who you know and how good you are
at reaching out to them, in others the defining element
is how known you are. You might be connected to
thousands of people, but if you don't have clout, your
efforts to make use of these connections is limited. This
is where Reputation comes into play.

REPUTATION
Reputation is a measurement of your social currency.
In the gift economies of the outer system, social repu-
tation has effectively replaced money. Unlike credit,
however, reputation is far more stable.
   Within Eclipse Phase, reputation scores are facili-
tated by online social networks. Almost everyone is a
member of one or more of these reputation networks.
It is a trivial matter to ping the current Rep score and
history of someone you are dealing with—your muse
often does this automatically, marking an entoptic
Rep score badge on anyone with whom you interact,
updated in real time, so you will see if they suddenly
take a hit or become popular. The 7 most common
networks are noted on the Reputation Networks
%%% 289.txt %%%
 table. Gamemasters and characters may decide to add             FAVOR LEVELS AND MODIFIERS
 others appropriate to their game.                               Rep scores are broken down into five levels, reflecting
   You purchase a Rep score in one or more of these              your standing within that community. Every 20 points
 networks during character creation. Rep scores are              of Rep equals one level. See the Reputation Levels
 rated between 0 and 99, just like skills. These ratings         table for a breakdown.
 determine your ability to acquire goods, services, and             Likewise, favors are also broken down into five
 information and favors, as noted below. These scores            levels, rated from Trivial to Scarce (see Favors, p. 289,
 may be raised or lowered during game play according             for specific examples). The standard level of favor
 to your character's actions.                                    you can expect to get from a social network is based
                                                                 on your level of Rep in that network. If you want to
 USING NETWORKS AND REP                                          pursue a favor above your level, you can do so, but
 In game terms, you take advantage of your connec-               you will suffer a negative modifier on your Network-
 tions and personal cred every time you need a favor.            ing Test. This reflects that someone with low standing
 A favor is broadly defined as anything you try to get           has a hard time getting people to go out of their way
 via your social networks, whether that be information,          for them. Similarly, if you pursue a favor below your
 aid, goods, and so on. Different types of favors are            level, you receive a positive modifier to your Network-
 described under Favors, p. 289.                                 ing Test, reflecting that your prestige makes it easier to
                                                                 acquire minor things that you need. For each level the
 THE NETWORKING TEST                                             favor falls under or above your Rep score level, apply
 To pursue a favor, you start by looking around. This            a + or –10 modifier, as appropriate.
 calls for a Networking Test to determine if you can
 find the person, people, or information you need.                   Jaqui's on a scum barge and she needs to get a
 This represents talking to people you know, spread-                 hold of a weapon fast. She has a specific weapon in
 ing the word to people they know, posting queries to                mind, but it's pricey—its cost is High. She decides
 the social network at large, digging through various                her best approach is to try talking to the scum on
 profiles, chat rooms, etc. to find someone who might                the ship to try and find someone who can lend or
 help you out, and so on.




                                                                                                                               EXAMPLE
                                                                     sell her such a weapon, using her @-rep and her
    Networking Tests are subject to modifiers for the                Networking: Autonomist skill of 50. Acquiring a
 level of the favor (see below), the amount the char-                High cost item counts as a Level 4 High favor (see
 acter is trying to keep quiet about the request (see                Acquire/Unloads Goods, p. 289). Jaqui's @-rep
 below), and any other factors noted on the Network-                 is 53, which is only Level 3. Since the favor is one
 ing Modifiers table or determined by the gamemaster.                level higher than her rep level, she suffers a –10
    Networking Tests are Task Actions—it takes time                  modifier on her Networking Test. Jaqui must roll a
 to call in favors or track down information. The time-              40 or less (50 – 10) to find a weapon supplier.
 frame depends on the level of favor, as noted on the
 Favors table, p. 289.



                                          REPUTATION NETWORKS
NETWORK NAME                   REP NAME           NETWORKING FIELD       FACTIONS AND OTHERS
The Circle-A List              @-Rep              Autonomists            anarchists, Barsoomians, Extropians, Titanian, and scum
CivicNet                       c-Rep              Hypercorps             hypercorps, Jovians, Lunars, Martians, Venusians
EcoWave                        e-Rep              Ecologists             nano-ecologists, preservationists, and reclaimers
Fame                           f-Rep              Media                  socialites (also artists, glitterati, and media)
Guanxi                         g-Rep              Criminals              criminals
The Eye                        i-Rep              Firewall               Firewall
Research Network Associates r-Rep                 Scientists             argonauts (also technologists, researchers, and scientists)



       NETWORKING MODIFIERS                                                 REPUTATION LEVELS
             SITUATION                      MODIFIER                   REPUTATION SCORE                      REPUTATION LEVEL
    Favor level exceeds Rep level          –10 per level                        0–19                                 Level 1
    Rep level exceeds favor level          +10 per level                       20–39                                 Level 2
            Keeping quiet              –Variable (see p. 288)                  40–59                                 Level 3
             Burning Rep               +Rep amount burned                      60–79                                 Level 4
             Paying extra                  +10 per level                       80–99                                 Level 5
%%% 290.txt %%%
PAYING/EXCHANGING FOR FAVORS
Favors don't necessarily come for free. Depending on
what you're after, you may also need to exchange for it.
  In the capitalist and transitional economies of the
inner system and Jovian Junta, you may need to buy
the goods or services you are after with credit. Even in-
formation might be paid for by bribing the right person.
Once spent, that credit is gone until you earn more.
  In the anarchistic reputation economies of the outer
system, you can get what you need for free. In this
case, you are acquiring goods and services based on
the strength of your reputation.


           Jaqui rolls a 39—she makes it! After posting some
           public notices on the scum social network (she's
           not worried about legalities or hiding what she's
 EXAMPLE




           doing—this is a scum ship after all), she gets di-
           rected to a weapons dealer with a good rep. While
           a scum arms merchant normally sells their wares
           for credit, Jaqui is scum herself, so she's able to use
           her scum community standing and get the weapon
           for free. This uses up a High favor, however.


THE LIMITS OF REPUTATION
Even in the gift economies, reputation only gets you so
far. There are limits to how often you can ask for help
before you start coming across as pushy or a leech. In
game terms, this is expressed as a refresh rate—the
amount of time you must wait to pass before you can
seek out a favor of that level again without seeming
demanding. Refresh rates are noted on the Favors
table (p. 289).
   If you need to seek another favor before the refresh
rate has expired, you have two choices. You can
expend a higher level favor instead, keeping in mind
that higher level favors refresh more slowly. Alterna-
tively, you can burn reputation (see below).


           Now that Jaqui's got her weapon, she needs
           another favor—she needs to find someone who
           doesn't want to be found. The person she's after is
           scum, so once again she turns to the scum for help.
           The gamemaster decides that this is another Level
           4 favor (see Acquire Information, p. 291). Once
           again, with her Networking: Autonomist of 50 and
           Level 3 rep, she must roll a 40 or less. She gets a
 EXAMPLE




           21, and finds someone who has the information
           she needs.
              Jaqui now has a choice. To get this information,
           she either needs to pay the person in credits (a
           High cost) or she she needs to expend another
           Level 4 favor. She's low on money, so she decides
           to use her rep again. Level 4 favors only refresh
           once a month, though, and Jaqui used her last one
           just a few hours ago. Her only choice is to expend
           a higher favor, so she expends a Level 5 to get the
           intel she needs.
BURNING REPUTATION
In some cases, getting what you need may be more
important than not stepping on people's tentacles. In
situations of dire need, you can burn some of your
Rep score to get the job done, meaning that you ex-
change a loss of Rep for a shot at a favor. This reflects
that you are pushing the bounds of how far people are
willing to go for you. While you still might get what
you need, your online reputation rating takes a hit as
people flag you for being needy.
   There are two reasons to burn Rep score. The first
is to get a bonus on your Networking Test. This indi-
cates that you are pulling strings and calling in mark-
ers to get the favor you're after. This is particularly
useful when you are trying to obtain a favor that's of
a level higher than your Rep, but abuse it too often
and you will soon have no social standing at all. Every
point of Rep you burn gives you an equivalent posi-
tive modifier on the Networking Test, up to a maxi-
mum of +30.
   The second option is to burn Rep to seek a favor
before it has refreshed. This reflects that you are asking
for too much in a short period. The amount of Rep
you must burn in this case depends on the level of favor
you are seeking, as noted on the Favors table (p. 289).


  Jaqui's got her weapon and her target's where-
  abouts, but she needs one more thing: a hacker.
  She needs someone who can open some doors
  and defeat some security systems so she can get
  to the target she's after in his hideout. Since she's
  on a scum barge, Jaqui feels that, once again, her
  best option is to work her scum contacts. The
  gamemaster determines that this will be another
  Level 4 favor. Rolling against a target number of
                                                          EXAMPLE




  40 again, she gets a 13—her luck is holding.
     She finds a hacker, but now she needs to make
  an exchange for their services. Once again she
  decides not to spend credit and use her @-rep
  instead. Jaqui's already used up both her Level 4
  and Level 5 @-rep favors, though, so she has no
  choice but to burn reputation. A Level 4 favor costs
  10 Rep to burn. Jaqui spends it, sending her @-rep
  from 53 to 43—she's been pulling in a lot of big
  favors in a short amount of time, and her friends
  and acquaintances are expressing their annoyance
  by lowering her social standing.


KEEPING QUIET
The problem with using social networks for favors is
that you end up letting lots of other people know what
you're up to. When you're involved in a clandestine
operation, that could be exactly what you don't want.
The only way to diminish this is to take your requests
to trusted friends and ask them to keep quiet, but this
diminishes the pool of people at your disposal.
%%% 291.txt %%%
   In game terms, you can try to keep word of what
 you're doing quiet, but this makes it harder to get
 what you need. For every negative modifier you apply
 to your Networking Test, the same negative modifier
 applies to anyone making a Networking Test to find
 out what you're up to.


              Revisiting one of our previous examples, we go
              back to the point where Jaqui was trying to
              ascertain someone's hideout location. Because
              the person she's after is scum, they're on a
              scum ship, and Jaqui is using her Networking:
              Autonomist skill to find them, there's a good
              chance that if she starts asking around to ev-
              eryone, word might trickle back to the person
              she's after. She doesn't want them to know
              she's on their tail, though, so she decides to
   EXAMPLE




              make her inquiries more discreet. She applies
              a –20 modifier to her Networking Test, which
              lowers her target number from 40 to 20. As
              noted before, she rolls a 21, which is a fail-
              ure. She spends a Moxie point to flip the roll,
              though, making it a 12—a success.
                Because Jaqui took that –20 hit, represent-
              ing the fact that she was keeping her research
              quiet, her target will suffer a –20 modifier
              when he makes his Networking Test to see if
              he gets word that someone is asking around
              about his hideout.


 FAVORS
 Creative players can undoubtedly come up with many
 uses for their social networks, but a few of the more
 common are detailed here.
   Gamemasters should use their discretion as to how
 much roleplaying interaction and Networking Tests
 are included in using a social network. For normal
 goods, straightforward information queries, or small
 favors, neither dice rolling nor roleplaying may be re-
 quired. For major requests, interactions with contacts,
 and mission assistance, dice rolls and/or roleplaying
 interaction with contacts from the social network
 should usually occur. Gamemasters may wish to keep
 track of the NPC contacts in each character's social
 networks and make them recurring characters.




                           FAVORS
                                     BURNING
FAVOR LEVEL          TIMEFRAME       REP COST REFRESH RATE
1 (Trivial)             1 minute         0           1 hour
2 (Low)                30 minutes        1            1 day
3 (Moderate)             1 hour          5           1 week
4 (High)                 1 day          10           1 month
5 (Scarce)               3 days         20          3 months
 ACQUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS
Social networks are a good way to find items that
you can't buy legally or make at home. Depending
on who you're getting the goods from, this will cost
you credit or require an appropriate Rep score. This
favor can also be used to sell or give away such items,
making some money or perhaps even some Rep in
the process.


      ACQUIRE/UNLOAD GOODS
LEVEL   SERVICE
  1     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Trivial.
  2     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Low.
  3     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Moderate.
  4     Acquire/unload item with an expense of High.
  5     Acquire/unload item with an expense of Expensive



 ACQUIRE SERVICES
When you lack the skills or education you need, or
you just need another set of arms, you can call out
to your social network to find someone to help you
out. If you are looking for someone with a particular
skill, the result of your successful Networking Test roll
is the skill rating of the person you find. The higher
your Networking skill, the better able you are to find
highly-skilled professionals.


   Cole needs to find an astrobiologist who can help
   him identify an alien critter. He rolls his Network-
   ing: Scientist skill of 50 and gets a 43—a success.
                                                          EXAMPLE




   He tracks down someone with Academics: Astro-
   biology skill of 43 (his roll) who can help him out.
   When the astrobiologist looks the critter over, the
   gamemaster makes a roll for the NPC using that
   skill of 43.


 ACQUIRE INFORMATION
When you can't find the information online or you
don't have the time or capability to look, you can
turn to people in your social network and tap their
accumulated knowledge base.

 REPUTATION AND IDENTITY
It is important to note that reputation is closely tied
to identity. If you are undercover and using a fake ID,
you can't really call on your Rep score without giving
yourself away. As a result, many people using false
identities end up building up a separate set of Rep
scores for their alter ego.
   Note that since many social network interactions
take place online, it is possible for someone to secretly
make use of their real identity while masquerading
as someone else, as long as they're careful about it. If
anyone happens to be spying on their activity via the
mesh, they stand a chance of being found out.
%%% 292.txt %%%
           ACQUIRE SERVICES
VEL   SERVICE
      Trivial favor: Get someone to perform services for 15
      minutes. Moving a chair. Browbeating someone. Catching a
 1
      ride. Researching someone on line. Borrow 50 credits. Other
      Trivial cost services.
      Minor favor: Get someone to perform services for an
      hour. Moving to a new cubicle. Roughing someone up.
 2    Loaning a vehicle. Providing an alibi. Healing vat rental.
      Minor hacking assistance. Basic legal or police assistance.
      Borrow 250 credits. Other Low cost services.
      Moderate favor: Get someone to perform services for
      a day. Moving to a habitat in the same cluster. Serious
      beatings. Lookouts. Short-distance egocast. Short shuttle
 3    trip (under 50,000 km). Minor psychosurgery. Uploading.
      Reservations at the best restaurant ever. Major legal rep-
      resentation or police favors. Borrow 1,000 credits. Other
      Moderate cost services.
      Major favor: Get someone to perform services for a
      month. Moving a body. Homicide. Getaway shuttle piloting.
      Industrial sabotage. Large-volume shipping contract on
 4    bulk freighter. Medium-distance egocast. Mid-range shuttle
      trip (50,000–150,000 km). Moderate psychosurgery.
      Resleeving. Get out of jail free. Borrow 5,000 credits. Other
      High cost services.
      Partnership: Get someone to perform services for a
      year. Moving a dismembered body. Mass murder. Major
      embezzlement. Acts of terrorism. Relocate a mid-size
 5
      asteroid. Long-distance egocast. Long-range shuttle trip
      (150,000 km or more). Borrow 20,000 credits. Other
      Expensive cost services.




      ACQUIRE INFORMATION
LEVEL SERVICE
      Common Information: Where to eat. What biz a certain
 1
      hypercorp is in. Who's in charge.
      Public Information: Make gray market connections.
      Where the “bad neighborhood” is. Obscure public
 2
      database info. Who's the local crime syndicate. Public
      hypercorp news.
      Private Information: Make black market connections.
      Where an unlisted hypercorp facility is. Who's a cop. Who's
 3
      a crime syndicate member. Where someone hangs out.
      Internal hypercorp news. Who's sleeping with whom.
      Secret Information: Make exotic black market
      connections. Where a secret corp facility is. Where
 4
      someone's hiding out. Secret hypercorp projects. Who's
      cheating on whom.
      Top Secret Intel: Where a top secret black-budget
 5    lab is. Illegal hypercorp projects. Scandalous data.
      Blackmail material.
%%% 293.txt %%%
SECURITY
Firewall sentinels make a regular habit of being in
places where they are not supposed to be and bring-
ing things with them that others would prefer they
not have. Security has a different character post-Fall
than in the 21st century. Due to hyper-abundance,
physical security measures such as locks, doors, and
walls are less important than in the past to common
citizens. People don't worry about theft as much as
in the past because most items can be replaced by a
nanofabricator. The items that do tend to engender
this type of security are irreplaceable or rare items
such as artifacts of Earth.
   Post-Fall physical security focuses heavily on
surveillance—identifying intruders and tracking
them so that they can be interdicted by transhuman
or robotic defenders. Surveillance is more effec-
tive than in pre-Fall societies because AIs with
near-human faculties of pattern recognition and
indentured infomorphs can be employed to monitor
surveillance data.
  The emphasis on surveillance results from the ease
with which most material barriers can be breached
by high-powered hand weaponry and devices like
the covert operations tool (p. 315). However, physi-
cal barriers designed to actively resist intruders by
healing themselves or attacking tools used to damage
them are used at key points in secure installations.
Such barriers are typically very expensive and so are
used sparingly.
  Transhuman, animal, and infolife defenders are
cornerstones of most security systems. The avail-
ability of a huge pool of infomorph labor to guard
facilities means that someone is always on duty,
whether as part of the surveillance system or in a
robotic shell.

ACCESS CONTROL
The first step in any security system is simply to enact
measure to keep unwanted people out. At a basic level
this involves walls, locks, fencing, defensive landscap-
ing, security lighting, and entoptic warnings.
   Barriers of different sorts present an obstacle that
must be cut through or blown apart in order to
defeat. Barriers are treated just like other inanimate
objects for purposes of attack sand damage; see Ob-
jects and Structures, p. 202.

BUG ZAPPERS
Bug zappers create minute EMP pulses that are harm-
less to most electronic equipment and implants but
wreak havoc on nanobot swarms, microbugs, and
specks. Bug zappers are generally applied to surfaces,
and as such they only destroy floating/flying swarms
or specks if they land. In areas with heavily shielded
electronics, they may be installed to destroy targets
in an entire room. A zapper instantly destroys all
free-crawling or flying nanobots and specks in a room
when it goes off, but transhuman flesh is sufficient to
prevent it destroying medichines or other implanted
nanobots. Infiltrators trying to gather data in areas
protected by zappers generally resort to going around
them or trying to plant macroscale devices.

ELECTRONIC LOCKS
Electronic locks (e-locks) are commonly used as a
means of maintaining privacy. They are easy to defeat,
however, and so are rarely used in very secure areas.
E-locks have several advantages over old-fashioned
mechanical locks. Different users can have different
authentication methods, they can log all events (entry,
exit, failed authentications), and they can be con-
nected (usually hardwired but sometimes encrypted
wireless) to security systems for remote control and
alarm triggering.
   E-locks use one of several authentication systems,
or sometimes a combination of systems:
   Biometric: The lock scans one or more of the user's
biometric prints. Common biometrics include DNA,
facial thermographic, fingerprint, gait, hand veins, iris,
keystroke, odor, palm, retinal, and voice prints.
   Keypad: This is an alphanumeric keypad upon
which users enter a specific code. Different users can
have different codes.
   Token: Authorized users must carry some sort of
physical token that interacts with the lock to open the
door, such as a keycard, electronic key, etc.
   Wireless Code: Users must emit a cryptographic
code via near-proximity wireless signal.
   Though various technologies exist to defeat each
of these systems, there are three methods that work
against almost all e-locks. The first is use of a covert
operations tool (p. 315), which infiltrates a lock with
nanobots that swarm in and engage the electronic
mechanism. The drawback to using a COT is that its
use is immediately logged by the e-lock and an alarm
is triggered. Some e-locks are equipped with guardian
nanoswarms (p. 329) to defeat COTs, but the COT
nanobots usually manage to open the lock before the
guardians eat them.
   The second method is to hack the e-lock. Most
e-locks are slaved to a security system, so this often
means intruding into the security system and then
opening the lock from within. This can be difficult,
however, especially if the security system is wire-
lessly isolated or hardwired. The advantage is that,
if done right, all evidence of the lock being opened
can be erased.
   The third method is to physically open and ma-
nipulate the lock. This requires first opening the
lock's case and then triggering the lock mechanism
to open the door. Both of these are handled as
separate Hardware: Electronics Task Actions with
a timeframe of 1 minute each. In addition, most e-
locks have anti-tamper circuits that will set off an
alarm if the attacker does not achieve an Excellent
Success when opening the case.
%%% 294.txt %%%
LOCKBOTS
The 21st century saw a move from mechanical
locks to e-locks and other largely electronic locking
mechanisms. These devices worked well for about
50 years, until electronic infi ltration capabilities
rendered them largely useless. The more recent de-
velopment of lockbots has more in common with
their early mechanical forebears. They are unique,
expensive, artisan items.
   A typical lockbot is heavily integrated with the
portal and barrier it protects. Lockbots usually
include an AI or indentured infomorph, self-healing
materials (treat as a self-healing barrier), and a
swarm of guardian nanobots (p. 329). A lockbot
monitors its surroundings and has visual recogni-
tion software that knows what its users and its keys
look like (Perception skill 40). Picking a lockbot is
thus incredibly difficult, because it will shut its ori-
fice and not accept a key that doesn't look right or
that comes from an unrecognized user. Unfamiliar
nanobots trying to enter the orifice are targeted and
destroyed by the guardian nanobots. Finally, exter-
nal tools used to harm the portal or the lock will be
attacked by fractal appendages extruded from the
portal surface or the lock itself. These appendages
have a range of 1 meter, attack with skill of 40, and
inflict 1d10 +2 DV.
   Lockbots are generally immune to being hacked
because, for security, they aren't connected to
the mesh. If attacked, however, lockbots are pro-
grammed to send out an alarm signal via the mesh.
   There are several ways to defeat a lockbot. One
is to get a copy or image of the key and then forge
a copy (using nanofabrication). Another is to attack
the lockbot or the portal it guards with so much
force that the lockbot is unable to repair it (usually
using ranged weapons, as anything within a meter
of a lockbot may be counterattacked). A third is to
somehow image the cavity beyond the lockbot's ori-
fice without the imaging device being destroyed and
to then forge the key. All of these are difficult and
time-consuming processes.
   Some lockbots have the ability to destroy what
they're protecting. For example, lockbots are a
common protection for the physical interfaces to
hardwired networks. If the lockbot is compromised,
it may, as a last resort, destroy the interface it was
protecting.

PORTAL DENIAL SYSTEM
Installed in corridors or doorways, this is essentially
a laser trap device. When an unauthorized person
enters the portal denial system's area, it uses lasers
to create a grid of plasma channels that are used to
deliver a powerful electric current to the target. This
system has both lethal and nonlethal settings.
  Nonlethal: 1d10 DV + shock (p. 204)
  Lethal: 2d10 +5 DV
SELF-HEALING BARRIERS
Walls and doors that are able to rapidly repair them-
selves are sometimes found in high security instal-
lations. These barriers are made of materials that
automatically expand to “heal” small holes and that
are equipped with nanosystems that slowly repair
larger amounts of damage. The best of these barriers
do no more than slow down the most determined
assailants, but in combination with surveillance sys-
tems they are a nuisance to invaders and can slow
down attempts to flee the scene.
   Self-healing barriers heal any single source of
damage that is less than 5 points of damage almost
immediately, sealing the hole in 1 Action Turn. They
will also seal the holes infl icted by a covert ops
tool (p. 315) in the same time period. Additionally,
these barriers repair larger themselves at the rate of
1d10 damage per 2 hours; once all damage is fixed
any wounds are repaired at the rate of 1 per day.
Damage of 3 wounds or more may not be repaired
by self-healing.

SLIPPERY WALLS
On planetary surfaces, high walls and fences are still
common as a first line of defense against interlop-
ers. Slippery walls are surface treated with the slip
chemical (p. 323), creating a virtually frictionless
surface that is exceptionally difficult to climb.

WIRELESS INHIBITORS
Wireless inhibitors are simple paint jobs or construc-
tion materials that block radio signals. They are
used to create a contained area in which a wireless
network may operate freely without worry that the
signals will escape out of the area, where they can
be intercepted. Wireless inhibitors allow the conve-
nience of using wireless links within a secure area
rather than the clumsier hardwired connections. If
an intruder manages to gain access inside the area,
however, they can intercept, sniff, and hack wireless
devices as normal.

DETECTION AND SURVEILLANCE
Should security measures fail to keep an intruder
out, the second step is to detect an interloper and
track their activity.

NANOTAGGING
A lot of post-Fall security centers not around keeping
people out of private spaces, but tracking them after
they come and go. What little privacy transhumans
have, they cherish. Trespassing is a worse offense
than theft in many places.
  A room protected by a taggant nanoswarm (p. 329)
usually has two or more hives, one each at floor and
ceiling level (if in gravity; on the opposite side of the
room if in microgravity) that generate and recycle
nanobots. The taggants emerge from one hive, float
through the room, and then return to the other for
recharging and reuse. A feed line usually connects the
%%% 295.txt %%%
hives so that they can share materials and power.
   Anyone passing through the room is likely to be
dosed with taggant nanobots. Once they lose proxim-
ity to the rest of the hive, they hide and periodically
broadcast pulsed transmissions meant to give their po-
sition to pursuers or investigators. Some may drop off
in clusters to form a breadcrumb trail to the interloper.

SENSORS
Any of the various sensors described in the Gear
chapter (p. 294) may be deployed within a facility
to monitor and record the passage of personnel,
both authorized and not. These sensors are typically
slaved to the facility's security network and closely
monitored by security AIs, meaning they are vulner-
able to hacking and possibly jamming. A few other
sensor types deserve mention here:
   Chemical Sniffers: The chem sniffer described on
p. 311 can also be set to detect the carbon dioxide
exhaled in transhuman breaths. This is useful for
detecting intruding biomorphs in areas that are
abandoned/off-limits.
   Electrical Sensors: Electrical sensors can be set in
portals to detect a biomorph's electromagnetic field
in addition to the electrical fields of synthmorphs.
   Heartbeat Sensors: These sensitive sensors detect
the vibration caused by transhuman heart beats.
They can even be used to detect the heartbeats of
passengers inside a large vehicle.
   Seismic Sensors: Embedded in flooring, these sen-
sors pick up the pressure and vibration of weight
and movement.

WEAPON SCANNERS
Weapon scanners come in several varieties, includ-
ing those that look for the rare elements used in
extremely destructive weapons such as nukes, those
that attempt to locate personal weaponry, and those
that look for detection taggants.
   Rare element scanners are nearly flawless and are
ubiquitous in habitat customs and spaceports. The
only way to circumvent them is to find an alternate
route into the protected area.
   Personal weapon scanners can monitor a specific
area, such as a small room or doorway. They use
a number of sensing systems to detect and identify
weapons and other dangerous objects, including
chemical sniffers and radar/terahertz/infrared/x-ray/
ultrasound imaging. They can detect the following
items and substances:

 - Metal used in kinetic weapons, seekers, and
   flechette weapons
 - Devices with onboard hives of metallic nano-
   bots (e.g., covert operations tools, spindles)
 - Magnetic elements in plasma guns and railguns
 - Propellant from firearms ammunition and seek-
   ers (–30 to conceal)
 - Chemical fuels used in torch spray weapons
   (–30 to conceal)
 - All explosives and grenades by their chemical
   particulate emissions (–30 to conceal)
 - Poisons and bioagents in flechette weapons
 - Any weapon or device larger than palm size
   (using sound waves and shape recognition)

  Characters trying to sneak weapons and gear past
personal weapon scanners must make a Palm-
ing Test (if concealing) or an Infiltration
Test (if somehow maneuvering around
without notice). This is opposed by a
Perception Test from the character or
AI manning the sensor system.

WIRELESS SCANNING
Some high-security areas will in-
tentionally monitor for wireless
radio signals originating within
their area as a way of detect-
ing intruders by their com-
munications emissions. These
signals can even be used to
track the intruder's location via
triangulation and other means
(see Physical Tracking, p. 251).
To bypass wireless detection sys-
tems, covert operatives can use
line-of-sight laser links (p. 313)
for communication or touch-based
skinlinks (p. 309).

ACTIVE COUNTERMEASURES
When all else fails, active counter-
measures may be deployed against
intruders. While live transhu-
man guards are sometimes
used, robotic sentries are more
common, typically AI-driven
synthmorphs such as synths,
slitheroids, arachnoids, or
reapers, with guardian angels
(p. 346) providing air support.
Occasionally AI-operated gun
emplacements—armored tur-
rets that pop out of walls and
ceilings—are also applied. In
some circumstances, these shells
are teleoperated or even jammed
by transhuman security.
   dditional countermeasures brought
to bear will depend on the facility in
question. Some sites will engage in active
jamming, to deny the intruders any com-
munication. Others will deploy hostile nano-
swarms and even chemical weapons.
