%%% 298.txt %%%
■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■G




 The accelerated technological levels of Eclipse Phase
 enable a number of devices for personal enhancement,
 survival, and other uses.



 EQUIPMENT RULES
 The following rules apply to all technological items in
 Eclipse Phase.

 ACQUIRING GEAR
 During character creation, players purchase gear for
 their characters using the credits they have during
 the character creation process. Once play begins,
 however, characters must obtain any equipment they
 need the usual way: by buying, borrowing, making,
 or stealing it.
    In the inner system, hypercorp, and Jovian Republic
 settlements—and other places where capitalism still
 reigns—gear acquisition is simply a matter of finding
 a seller and buying it. Each item has a listed cost, from
 Trivial to Expensive, as noted on the Gear Costs table.
 Due to local availability of resources, supply and
 demand, and legalities, these listed costs are meant
 to be approximations. When no other factors apply,
 the listed Average Cost for that category can be used.
 Otherwise the gamemaster should modify the item's
 worth as they see fit, according to local economic fac-
 tors, while still keeping it within that cost category
 range. The Cost Modifiers table lists out some sug-
 gested changes to an item's cost, but these are simply
 recommendations, and can be ignored or followed as
 the gamemaster deems fit. The exact local conditions
 are largely up to the gamemaster to determine, as best
 fits their game.
    In some circumstances, characters may attempt to
 haggle over gear prices. This is best handled as ro-
 leplaying, but the gamemaster may also call for an
 Opposed Persuasion Test (or possibly an Intimidation
 Test). The character who wins may increase or reduce
 the price by 10% per 10 points of MoS.
    In the outer system, anarchist, Titanian, scum, and
 other habitats that use the reputation economy, charac-
 ters must rely on their rep scores to acquire the goods
 and services they need. The mechanics for this are cov-
 ered under Reputation and Social Networks, p. 285.
    Characters are of course free to get their hands
 on equipment by any other means they devise—con
 schemes, borrowing from friends, and outright
 theft, with all of the appropriate tests and conse-
 quences. In some cases, acquiring gear may be an
 adventure unto itself.

 FABRICATING GEAR
 Thanks to nanofabrication technology, characters may
 also create their own equipment using cornucopia
AR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■GEAR■
                      ■GEAR■
                       GEAR■

                                                               11


  machines and similar nanofab devices (p. 327). The
  character must have the appropriate blueprints to do
  so, whether they come with the fabber, are bought
  legitimately or on the black market, acquired with rep,
  or found online. Characters may also code their own
  blueprint desires, using the Programming: Nanofab-
  rication skill.

   GEAR MODIFIERS
  In the technological future, gear is a necessity. In many
  cases, use of equipment provides no bonuses, it simply
  allows a character to perform a task they would oth-
  erwise be unable to do. For example, it is impossible
  to pick a mechanical lock without lockpick or some
  sort of tool.
     In other cases, however, gear provides a bonus to
  the task at hand. Climbing a wall may be possible
  without tools, but if you happen to have gecko gloves
  or other climbing gear, it's going to be a lot easier. The
  specific modifier applied is usually noted in the gear
  item's description, typically ranging from +10 to +30.

   GEAR QUALITY
  In both of the situations above, it is possible to have
  items that are of either exceptional or inferior quality,
  with corresponding positive or negative modifiers. The
  gear may be well-crafted, state-of-the-art, cutting-edge
  experimental, or simply top-of-the-line, applying an
  additional +10 to +30. Or it may be outdated, shoddy,
  or in disrepair, inflicting a –10 to –30 modifier (in
  some cases canceling out the basic gear bonus).



                       GEAR COSTS
 CATEGORY RANGE (IN CREDITS)          AVERAGE (IN CREDITS)
 Trivial        1–99                  50
 Low            100–499               250
 Moderate       500–1,499             1,000
 High           1,500–9,999           5,000
 Expensive      10,000+               20,000



                   COST MODIFIERS
 ECONOMIC FACTOR              SUGGESTED COST MODIFIER
 Item Stolen                  –50%
 Item Used                    –25%
 Item Restricted              +25%
 Item Illegal                 +50%
 Item Scarce                  +25%
 Item Extremely Rare          +50%
 Item Common                  –25%
%%% 299.txt %%%
GEAR SIZES
On occasion, you'll need to know how small or large
a certain piece of equipment is. Though this is largely
something the gamemaster can wing on the fly using
common sense, we've listed sizes for many gear items
that are unusual or so futuristic that the average player
may not have a feel for what dimensions the tech
likely is. These size categories are listed on the Gear
Sizes table (p. 297). These sizes should be considered
approximations, as depending on the manufacturer
and process, some items may be smaller or larger than
similar items. It is also important to keep in mind that
as technology advances, the size and components of
various equipment items shrink, so when in doubt, go
with smaller.

MASS AND ENCUMBRANCE
A character who is carrying too much gear should
be slowed down, suffering negative modifiers both
to their movement rates and their skill tests. Rather
than micromanaging the weights of individual pieces
of equipment, however, this matter is largely left to
the gamemaster's discretion, using common sense. If a
character loads up beyond reason, apply modifiers as
seem appropriate. The gamemaster should, however,
keep in mind that many of the manufacturing mate-
rials used in Eclipse Phase allow for items that are
much lighter than current standards without any loss
of durability or function (see Future Materials, p. 298).
Likewise, characters in low or microgravity environ-
ments can carry much larger loads.

CONCEALING GEAR
Characters may attempt to conceal items on their
person, hoping at least to hide them from casual
notice if not an intensive search. To determine how



                 GEAR SIZES
SIZE CATEGORY GENERAL DIMENSIONS AND NOTES
                So small that the item cannot be seen without
                the aid of a microscope or nanoscopic vision
Nano
                (p. 311), and may not be manipulated without
                fractal digits (p. 311) or similar tools.
                Anything ranging from the size of a barely
Micro
                visible small dot to an average insect.
                Mini items may be concealed within some-
Mini
                one's palm or small pockets.
                Small items may be held in one hand and
Small
                concealed in normal pockets.
                Medium size items are cumbersome to hold
                with one hand, ranging from the size of a 2-li-
Medium          ter bottle to the size of a medium dog. They do
                not fit in pockets, but they may be concealed
                by larger coverings.
Large           Roughly human-sized.
Huge            Vehicles and other more massive objects.
effectively the character conceals the equipment, make
a Palming Test and note the MoS (the gamemaster
may wish to roll this secretly). Whenever another
character has a chance to notice the concealed item,
they must succeed in a Perception Test and achieve
a higher MoS than was scored on the Palming Test.
The gamemaster should apply modifiers to both tests
as appropriate. For example, concealing a large item
like a sword would be difficult (–30), whereas wearing
concealing clothing like a longcoat or multi-pocketed
jumpsuit would help (+20). Likewise, a character
who is not actively looking is less likely to notice the
hidden gear (–30), whereas someone who conducts a
physical search (+30) or who has enhanced vision to
pierce protective layers will fare better.

DESIGN AND FASHION
Many objects in Eclipse Phase closely resemble their
early 21st century equivalents—a bottle of soda is still
a transparent container holding a brightly colored
liquid, clothing is obviously something you wear, and
a knife still consists of a blade and a handle. The ma-
terials, processes, and mindsets that go into making
them, however, are quite different. To start, very few
items look have a uniform, mass-produced look, even
if they were. The procedures of minifacturing and
nanofabrication allow every individual item to be
manufactured with a unique (or at least different)
look. In areas with anarchist/reputation economies, in
fact, where personal possessions have very little intrin-
sic value, expression and creativity are favored and so
many items are artistically personalized (and actual
hand-crafted items are rare and prized). Likewise,
almost all equipment is designed with ergonomics
and ease-of-use prioritized, so gear with soft curves,
pleasing colors, and form-fitting shapes are common.
Many items of personal technology, such as flashlights
or small tools, are made in the form of ovoids that
fit comfortably in the user's hand or in similar forms
that can be easily worn or attached to clothing. To
someone from the 20th century, many common
devices look like oddly colored rocks or decorative
pieces of plastic or ceramic (in fact, many such items
are referred to as “blobjects” by older transhumans).
   The materials used to create everyday items are
also advanced, ranging from aerogel and graphene
to smart materials (p. 298) and exotic metamateri-
als with unusual physical properties. In practice, this
means that most items are light, durable (with both
tensile strength and/or flexibility, as needed), water-
proof, dirt-repellent, and self-cleaning. Most gear is
also designed with zero-G or microgravity function-
ality in mind, and can easily be clipped, tethered, or
stuck to a surface with grip pads.
   Almost all gear available in Eclipse Phase is also
available in forms that are wearable/usable by up-
lifted animals and non-humanoid morphs, such
as novacrabs, slitheroids, and so on. Even if such
customized gear is not immediately available, it is
%%% 300.txt %%%
FUTURE MATERIALS
Many materials are available and commonly used in
Eclipse Phase that are rare, theorized, or unheard-
of today. The following entries note some of the
more interesting.

AEROGEL
Low-density, solid-state “Frozen smoke” is made by
carefully foaming various materials, typically glasses
or ceramics, to an ultra-low density state. Aerogel
is semi-transparent and light-weight, feels like sty-
rofoam, but acts as an incredible insulator against
heat and cold. It is commonly used in habitats.

DIAMOND
Artificial diamond is lightweight and super-strong,
has an extremely high melting point, and has near-
perfect thermal conductivity. This makes it an ideal
substance for hardening coated surfaces (armor)
and creating super-tough diamond machinery.

FULLERENES/FULLERITES
Fullerenes are molecular carbon structures (known
as buckyballs, carbon nanotubes, and graphene)
that are extremely strong (vastly stronger by weight
than steel), heat-resistant, and can be either insula-
tive or superconductive. This makes them useful in
equipment as diverse as armor, electronics, sensor
systems, or the cables of space elevators.

METALLIC FOAM
Metal foam is created by adding foaming agents
to liquid metals, resulting in extremely lightweight




usually not difficult to nanofabricate. Smart materials
(p. 298) also make interoperability between different
morphs easy.

 INTERFACE
It is not uncommon for everyday devices to have no
visible controls as they are designed to be operated via
radio broadcasts from the user's ecto or mesh inserts.
Any items crafted for use in emergency, combat, sur-
vival, or exploration situations, however, will feature
basic physical controls, just in case. Physical interfaces
are typically controlled by touch pads that are noth-
ing more than colored spots on the device's surface,
though some may also project a holographic interface
display. Most equipment of this sort can can also be
voice-activated and controlled.
   Almost all devices are loaded with a complete set
of help files and tutorials. Most electronics are also
mesh-capable and equipped with specialized AIs (see
Meshed Gear, next page).
 etallic structures—light enough to float on water.
 eal for habitat construction and floating cities.

METALLIC GLASS
 etallic glass are metals highly alloyed to possess a
 sordered (rather than crystalline) atomic structure
 ith unique combinations of stiffness and strength,
 aking it a good wear surface and alternative to
eramics in armor. It is also useful for its unusual
or a metal) electrical resistance properties.

METAMATERIALS
 etamaterials have unusual physical properties
 sually electromagnetic) due to their structure,
uch as having a negative refractive index. Metama-
 rials are used to create invisibility cloaks (p. 316),
uperlenses, phased array optics, and impressive
 D holograms.

 EFRACTORY METALS
hese metallic alloys have extremely high melt-
 g points, making them ideal for extremely hot
ngine systems, atmospheric entry vehicles, and
ypersonic craft.

RANSPARENT ALUMINA
 transparent form, this ceramic is often known as
 pphire. Transparent alumina is harder than steel
nd zero-g casting techniques allow for intriguing
ansparent construction designs, so long as its poor
 nsile strength is respected.                    ■




   SMART MATERIALS
   Many common items of technology are made from
   so-called smart materials. These devices contain—or
   sometimes consist entirely of—many small nanoma-
   chines that can both move and reshape themselves
   to alter the object's shape, color, and texture. For
   example, smart clothing can transform from a suit of
   specialized cold weather clothing suitable for the Mar-
   tian poles in winter to a fashionable suit in the latest
   style due to hundreds of thousands of tiny nanoma-
   chines in the clothing that shift and move to reshape
   the garment. Similarly, a tool made of smart materials
   can switch from a powered screwdriver to a wrench
   or a hammer, as the nanomachines move around and
   completely reshape the tool. Smart materials all con-
   tain specialized advanced nanomachine generators (p.
   328) that keep them in perfect repair as long as they
   are regularly recharged.
%%% 301.txt %%%
                                                                   characters are usually made part of the personal area
 MESHED GEAR                                                       network and slaved to the character's mesh inserts/
Almost all technology in Eclipse Phase is designed                 ecto. For more info on meshed devices, see the Mesh
to be operated via radio signals from the user's basic             chapter, p. 234.
implant, although models usable by characters with-                  Many devices come equipped with AIs, who are
out basic implants are also available. In addition all             equipped with skillsofts that enable them to oper-
devices contain a nearly microscopic computer and                  ate the device on their own, as according to voiced
radio link (known as a “voice”) that allows the user to            instructions or commands issued through the net. AIs
easily locate the object and that reports on the condi-            are described on p. 264 and p. 331.
tion of the object or device, how to properly use and
care for it, as well as telling the user when it needs             RADIO AND SENSOR RANGES
to be repaired and how. Most are discrete and highly               In Eclipse Phase, almost all devices are equipped with
useful, but cheaply made goods sometimes have overly               small radios so that they may be meshed. Likewise,
annoying voices.                                                   many pieces of gear are equipped with sensors such as
   This means that almost all devices can be accessed              cameras, microphones, or other detectors. The Radio
via the mesh or directly if within radio range. This               and Sensor Ranges table notes what range these de-
makes them vulnerable to hacking and intrusion at-                 vices operate at.
tempts (p. 254) as well as radio jamming (p. 262).
Many devices are, however, publicly accessible (see                POWER
Spimes, p. 238). Meshed gear may also be tracked                   All of the powered devices in Eclipse Phase require
through the mesh (p. 251). For privacy and security,               electricity to function. With rare exceptions, most of
these devices are often slaved to other systems (see               them rely on either solar cells or powerful batteries.
Slaving Devices, p. 248); devices worn/carried by                  These batteries are high-density, room-temperature


                                 RADIO AND SENSOR RANGES
SIZE CATEGORY           URBAN RANGE                   OPEN RANGE             EXAMPLES
Nano                       20 meters                       100 meters        Smart Dust, Nanobot/Microbot Swarms
Micro                      50 meters                       500 meters        Microbugs
Mini                      1 kilometer                     20 kilometers      Mesh Inserts
Small                     5 kilometers                    50 kilometers      Ectos, Miniature Radio Farcasters, Portable Sensors
Medium                   25 kilometers                250 kilometers         Radio Boosters, Vehicle Sensors
Large                    500 kilometers              5,000 kilometers
%%% 302.txt %%%
superconductors with 25 times the capacity of the
best batteries in common use in the early 21st century.
Such batteries may also be constructed so that they
are flexible, printed on devices, or woven into fabric.
They are good for 100–500 hours of use, and will alert
the user when they start running low. More power-
ful radio-isotope nuclear batteries are also available,
heavily shielded so they do not emit radiation and
good for 3 years or more of use.
   In short, power should rarely be an issue in Eclipse
Phase games, unless it happens to fit the plot. Power
failure could also result from a critical failure roll.



PERSONAL AUGMENTATION
Almost all citizens of the solar system, whether human,
AI, or uplifted animal, use various forms of biological,
cybernetic, or nanotechnological augmentation. The
following is a list of the most common types.
  Unless otherwise noted, any bonuses from personal
augmentations are both compatible and cumulative
with bonuses from other enhancements.

STANDARD AUGMENTATIONS
Most morphs produced in the solar system include the
following augmentations.

BASIC BIOMODS
Almost universal in biomorphs, many habitats will not
allow individuals to visit/immigrate if their biomorph
does not possess these biomods in order to preserve
public health. Basic biomods consists of a series of
genetic tweaks, tailored virii, and bacteria that speed
healing, greatly increase disease resistance, and impede
aging. A morph with basic biomods heals twice as fast
as an early 21st century human, gradually regrows lost
body parts, is immune to all normal diseases (from
cancer to the flu), and is largely immune to aging. In
addition, the morph requires no more than 3-4 hours
of sleep per night, is immune to ill-effects from long-
term exposure to low or zero gravity, and does not
naturally suffer from biological problems like depres-
sion, shock reactions after being injured, or allergies.
[Moderate, but included for free in most biomorphs]

BASIC MESH INSERTS
Mesh inserts are ubiquitous among modern morphs.
This network of cybernetic brain implants is essential
equipment for anyone who wants to stay connected
and make full use of the wireless mesh. The intercon-
nected components of this system include:

 - Cranial Computer: This computer serves as the
   hub for the character's personal area network
   and is home to their muse (p. 264). It has all of
   the functions of a smartphone and PDA, acting
   as a media player, meshbrowser, alarm clock/
   calendar, positioning and map system, address
   book, advanced calculator, file storage system,
   search engine, social networking client, messaging
   program, and note pad. It manages the user's aug-
   mented reality input and can run any software the
   character desires (see Software, p. 331). It also
   processes XP data, allowing the user to experi-
   ence other people's recorded memories, and also
   allowing the user to share their own XP sensory
   input with others in real-time. Facial/image rec-
   ognition and encryption software (p. 331) are
   included by default.
 - Radio Transceiver: This transceiver connects the
   user to the mesh and other characters/devices
   within range. It has an effective range of 20 kilo-
   meters in deep space or other locations far from
   radio interference and 1 kilometer in crowded
   habitats.
 - Medical Sensors: This array of implants monitors
   the user's medical status, including heart rate,
   respiration, blood pressure, temperature, neural
   activity, and much more. A sophisticated medical
   diagnostic system interprets the data and warns
   the user of any concerns or dangers.

  Using any of these functions is as easy as thinking.
[Moderate, but included for free in most morphs]

CORTICAL STACK
A cortical stack is a tiny cyberware data storage unit
protected within a synthdiamond case the size of a
grape, implanted at the base of the skull where the
brain stem and spinal cord connect. It contains a
digital backup of that character's ego. Part nanoware,
the implant maintains a network of nanobots that
monitor synaptic connections and brain architecture,
noting any changes and updating the ego backup in
real time, right up to the moment of death. If the char-
acter dies, the cortical stack can be recovered and they
may be restored from the backup (see Resleeving, p.
271). Cortical stacks do not have external or wireless
access (for security), they must be surgically removed
(see Retrieving a Cortical Stack, p. 268). Cortical
stacks are extremely durable, requiring special effort
to damage or destroy. They are commonly recovered
from bodies that have otherwise been pulped or man-
gled. Cortical stacks are intentionally isolated from
mesh inserts and other implants, as a security measure
to prevent hacking or external tampering. [Moderate,
but included for free with most morphs]

CYBERBRAIN
Cybernetic brains are where the ego (or controlling
AI) resides in synthmorphs and pods. Modeled on
biological brains, cyberbrains have a holistic architec-
ture and serve as the command node and central pro-
cessing point for sensory input and decision-making.
Only one ego or AI may “inhabit” a cyberbrain at a
time; to accommodate extras, mesh inserts (p. 300)
or a ghost-rider module (p. 307) must be used. Since
cyberbrains store memories digitally, they have the
equivalent of mnemonic augmentation (p. 307). They
also have a built-in puppet sock (p. 307) so that they
%%% 303.txt %%%
may be remote-controlled. Cyberbrains are vulnerable
to brainhacking (p. 261) and other forms of electronic
infiltration/attack. Cyberbrains come equipped with
two or more pairs of external access jacks (p. 306),
usually located at the base of the skull, which allow
for direct wired connections. [Moderate, but included
for free in all synthetic morphs and pods]

BIOWARE
Bioware augmentations can be acquired either as a
genemod when the morph is designed and grown or
as a later modification to an existing morph, either
by using nanomachines to modify the morph's tissue
or by externally growing the organ and implanting it.
Bioware may be used to enhance biomorphs (includ-
ing pods and uplifts), but not synthmorphs.

ENHANCED SENSES
The following are a list of the most common enhanced
senses. Each is also available as a cybernetic implant,
but bioware is much more common.
   Direction Sense: The character has an innate sense
of direction and distance using advanced inertial
navigation. The character can arbitrarily define any
point as “north” and keep track of which direction
that is, as well as knowing approximately how far
they have come. Characters with this augmentation
can always retrace any route they have taken, only
experiencing difficulty with three-dimensional routes
lacking navigational markers (such as deep space or
undersea; apply a –30 modifier). Since positioning
inside habitats by anyone with basic mesh inserts is an
automatic affair, only characters venturing to remote
locations require this augmentation. [Low]
   Echolocation: The character possesses sonar similar
to that of a bat or dolphin. The character bounces
brief ultrasonic pulses off their surroundings and uses
them to form an image of these surroundings through
the pattern of reflections of these pulses received by
the character's ears. For more details, see Using En-
hanced Senses, p. 302. This augmentation works in
both air and water and has a range of 20 meters in air
and 100 meters in water. [Low]
   Enhanced Hearing: The morph's ears are enhanced
to hear both higher and lower frequency sounds—the
range of sounds they can hear is twice that of normal
human ears (see Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302). In
addition, their hearing is considerably more sensitive,
allowing them to hear sounds as if they were five
times closer than they are. A character with this aug-
mentation can easily overhear even a softly spoken
conversation at another table in a small restaurant.
This augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all
Perception Tests involving hearing. [Low]
   Enhanced Smell: The morph's sense of smell is
equal to that of a bloodhound. The user can iden-
tify both chemicals and individuals by smell, and can
track people and chemically reactive objects by smell
as long as the trail was made within the last several
hours and has not been obscured. The character can
also gain a general sense of the emotions and health
of any character within 5 meters (+20 to Perception or
Kinesics Tests to do so). [Low]
   Enhanced Vision: The morph's eyes have tetrachro-
matic vision capable of exceptional color differen-
tiation. These eyes can also see the electromagnetic
spectrum from terahertz wave frequencies to gamma
rays, enabling them to see a total of several dozen
colors, instead of the seven ordinary human eyes can
perceive. In addition, these eyes have a variable focus
equivalent to 5 power magnifiers or binoculars. This
augmentation provides a +20 modifier to all Percep-
tion Tests involving vision. For further applications,
see Using Enhances Senses, p. 302. [Low]

MENTAL AUGMENTATIONS
Mental augmentations are extremely common.
   Eidetic Memory: The character can remember ev-
erything that ever happened to them, in detail, with
no long term memory loss. For example, they can
recite a page they read in a book a month ago, recall
a string of 200 random characters they viewed a year
ago, or even tell you what they had for breakfast on
a particular date a decade ago. However, they can
only remember things they paid attention to. The
character will not remember the contents of a note
on someone's desk if they merely glanced at it; they
must specifically have read it. No effort is required to
use this augmentation, the character merely needs to
attempt to remember a specific fact. [Low]
   Hyper Linguist: The morph's brain maintains the
linguistic flexibility of a small child, allowing the
character to learn languages with great ease. This
functions as the Hyper Linguist trait, p. 146. [Low]
   Math Boost: This implants functions as the Math
Wiz trait, p. 146. [Low]
   Multiple Personalities: The character's brain is in-
tentionally partitioned to accommodate an extra per-
sonality. This multiplicity is not viewed as a disorder,
but as a cognitive tool to help people deal with their
hypercomplex environments. This extra personality
can be an NPC run by the gamemaster, a separate
character (in ego form only) made by the player, or
the downloaded fork of another character. For all in-
tents and purposes, the extra personality is treated as
a separate ego (i.e., it may fork separately), except that
both personalities are backed up in the same cortical
stack and if downloaded they must be placed in sepa-
rate morphs or in another morph with this implant.
   Only one ego may be in control of the morph at a
time. The other resides in the background, still active,
but not on a surface level. Each ego is completely
aware of what the other is doing, thinking, etc. If for
some reason the subsumed personality wants to come
to the fore, but the other personality won't relinquish
control, make an Opposed WIL x 3 Test. Each ego
has its own Lucidity and Trauma Threshold, and they
track stress and trauma separately. Any psi attacks or
social/mental influences only affect the personality at
the fore.
%%% 304.txt %%%
USING ENHANCED SENSE
Personal augmentations and technological aids
have drastically increased the sensory capabilities
of most transhumans. The following notes provide
some details on what capabilities these sensory func-
tions provide. The capabilities are typically the same
whether it's a biological sense or a technological
sensor, though tech sensors can “turn off” certain
wavelengths and sense only specific frequencies,
whereas biological senses perceive the full spectrum
with no ability to filter parts out.

SENSORY DATABASES
 Both technological sensors and enhanced biological
 senses come equipped with databases of scanned
“signatures” that make it easier to identify whatever
 the user is sensing (in the case of bioware, these da-
 tabases are stored and accessed via the character's
 mesh inserts). For example, infrared sensors feature
 databases listing the heat signatures of different
 animals and items, making it easier to identify such
 things. In relevant situations, apply a +20 modifier
 for identifying targets sensed this way.

ACTIVE VS. PASSIVE
An active scanner must actually emit its particular
frequency and then measure the reflections; this
means a similar sensor can detect it and home in on
the emitting source. For example, a character with
enhanced vision can literally see the terahertz radia-
tion emitted by someone using an active terahertz
sensor, much like someone with normal vision can
see the light emitted by a flashlight.
  A passive scanner simply scans frequencies that occur
naturally—there is nothing to give the sensor away.

ELECTROMAGNETIC
SPECTRUM
   For Eclipse Phase rules purposes, the EM spectrum
is broken down by wavelength and frequency into
these categories: radio, microwave, terahertz, infrared,




    Having an extra ego in your head, working in the
  background, is helpful for multitasking. The character
  receives an extra Complex Action each turn that may
  only be used for mental or mesh actions. [High]

  PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS
  Most physical bioware augmentations are derived
  from the capabilities of animals.
     Adrenal Boost: This adrenal gland enhancement
  supercharges the character's adrenal response to
  situations that invoke stress, pain, or strong emotions
  (fear, anger, lust, hate). When activated, the concen-
  trated burst of norepinephrine accelerates heart rate
  and blood flow and burns carbohydrates. In game
  ible light, ultraviolet, X-rays, and gamma rays.
 Radar (Radio/Microwave): Radar sensors work by
 tively emitting radio waves and microwaves and
 easuring them as they bounce off the target. Radar
 orks best when detecting metallic objects, and is
 ss effective (–20 modifier) against biomorphs and
mall items. Resolution is not high, however, so it can
 e shapes but not colors or fine details. It can be
 ed to detect both speed and movement, can “see”
 rough walls (up to a cumulative Armor + Durabil-
    of 100), and can detect cybernetic implants or
  ncealed items. At close ranges (1-2 meters), it can
  tect pulse rate and respiration by measuring the
 otion of the chest cavity.
 Terahertz: Terahertz sensors emit t-rays, measure
 e reflections, and compare them to a database
   terahertz signatures that different items/materi-
 s have. The resolution is higher than radar, but
  th slightly less detail than normal vision. Similar
   radar, terahertz sensors can see through walls
  d other materials, but to a lesser extent (up to a
  mulative Armor + Durability of 50). T-rays occur
  turally, but terahertz sensors normally require an
mitter as they are absorbed by atmosphere (as well
   water and metal). In space, however, an emitter
 ould not be required. Likewise, passive terahertz
 ans within atmosphere have an effective range of
   meters. T-rays do not penetrate skin, so are inef-
 ctive for locating implants.
 Infrared: Near-infrared wavelengths are used
 r night vision, providing resolution and detail
  uivalent to regular vision under low-light condi-
ons. Mid-long infrared is excellent for detecting
  at sources (unobstructed by fog or smoke) and
 mperature differences (as small as 0.1 degree C),
  d such thermal imaging will sense the dissipat-
 g heat traces left by warm sources on colder ones,
  owing the user to see where someone was sitting,
ace fading heat footprints, or see what buttons
 ere pressed if they are quick enough. Infrared




   terms, this allows the character to ignore the –10
   modifier from 1 wound and temporarily increases
   REF by +10 (also boosting REF-linked skills and
   Initiative). These modifiers apply until the character
   has calmed down (if the character also has endocrine
   control, p. 304, then adrenal boosts can be activated
   and deactivated at will, and the negated wounds are
   cumulative). [High]
      Bioweave Armor (Light): Bioweave armor involves
   lacing the morph's skin with artificial spider silk bio-
   logical fibers. This provides an Armor rating of 2/3
   without changing the appearance, texture, or sensitiv-
   ity of the morph's skin. This armor is cumulative with
   worn armor. [Low]
%%% 305.txt %%%
  USING ENHANCED SENSES (CONT.)
  also detects the blood flow in a biomorph's face, to transhumans). These sensors can, of course, also
  which can be useful in judging emotional states detect the presence of harmful radiation.
  (+20 modifier to Kinesics Tests), and can spot sub-
  surface implants. Some normally white surfaces SOUNDWAVES
  are reflective (mirrored) in infrared, potentially The transmission of vibrations through a medium,
  allowing an infrared viewer to see around corners sound is broken down into infrasound (frequen-
  or behind themselves. On the other hand, some cies below standard human hearing), normal
  glass is opaque to infrared light. Infrared is also acoustic range, and ultrasound (frequencies above
  useful for determining chemical composition standard human hearing). Soundwaves do not
  (enabling Chemistry Tests by sight alone). Infrared propagate in vacuum.
  sensory input is passive.                                Ultrasound: Ultrasound sonar operates much
     Lidar (Visible Light): Similar to radar, but with like radar, bouncing sound waves off a target
  much higher resolution, lidar actively bounces light and measuring the returning echoes. Ultrasound
  from the infrared through ultraviolet spectrum off imaging is similarly low-resolution, showing
  a target and measures the backscatter, fluorescence, shapes and movement but no colors and few
  and other properties. Lidar is very useful for detect- details unless measured closely (1-2 meters).
  ing atmospheric chemical properties and weather. Ultrasound is good for identifying how dense a
  Like radar, it can be used to measure a target's material is, however, can detect denser materials
  range and speed, or develop a three-dimensional hidden beneath less dense ones. Many medical
  image. One clever use of lidar is to precisely “map” devices utilize ultrasound, and ultrasound sensors
  the position of everything in a room (taking several can also detect gas leaks, frictional motor noises,
  turns of scanning) and then check that positioning and similar mechanical emissions. Ultrasound sen-
  later to see if anything has been moved.               sors are typically unaffected by noise clutter from
     Ultraviolet: Some objects are fluorescent in ultra- standard acoustic frequencies.
  violet light, including some animals, flowers, insects,   Infrasound: Infrasound travels much further
  urine, and minerals (which show up much better than regular sound frequencies (hundreds of
  in ultraviolet than regular light). Some plants and kilometers). Mechanical machinery, seismic distur-
  animals have patterns that can only be seen in ultra- bances, tornados, explosions, waterfalls, and cer-
  violet. Likewise, chemical dyes that only show up tain weather phenomena create infrasound waves.
  under ultraviolet, or that make certain substances Large animals such as elephants and whales use
  (like blood) fluoresce under ultraviolet light, have infrasound to communicate via the ground over
  various security purposes. Some glass is opaque at large distances, though infrasound data transfer is
  ultraviolet wavelengths.                               too slow for complex communications.
     X-Ray/Gamma-Ray: Backscatter imaging systems
  using X- and gamma-ray frequencies produce COMBINED SENSOR YSTEMS
  high-resolution three-dimensional images and When used in combination, these sensor tech-
  are very useful for detecting concealed weapons nologies can be potent. For example, the use lidar,
  and implants. Such imagers are very good at thermal imaging, and radar can provide a three-
  penetrating walls and metal (up to a cumulative dimensional map of a building and everyone and
  Armor + Durability of 200, at least at levels safe everything inside.                                    ■




  Bioweave Armor (Heavy): Heavy bioweave armor             a chitin-ceramic hybrid material modeled on the
involves lacing the morph's skin with a denser and         microscopic structure and texture of arthropod exo-
thicker network of the same fi bers. The morph's           skeletons. This armor is obvious and has a somewhat
skin becomes thicker and somewhat less fl exible           crocodilian or insectoid appearance (character's
except at the joints. The morph's skin also has an         choice). The morph is completely hairless as well. This
unusually smooth look, and a distinctively smooth          provides an Armor rating of 11/11. This armor is not
and tough-feeling texture. This provides an Armor          cumulative with worn armor. [Moderate]
rating of 3/4 without decreasing the morph's mo-              Chameleon Skin: The morph's skin is augmented
bility. The character's sense of touch, however, is        with complex chromatophores so that it changes color
significantly reduced (–20 modifier) except on their       like the skin of a chameleon or an octopus. The morph
hands, feet, and face. This armor is cumulative with       can match the appearance of almost any color and
worn armor. [Moderate]                                     most patterns. This provides a +20 modifier to Infiltra-
  Carapace Armor: Carapace armor combines                  tion Tests to avoid being seen or noticed, as long as
bioweave armor with hard but flexible plates of            the character is stationary or not moving faster than a
%%% 306.txt %%%
slow walk. The character must also be nude or wearing
smart clothing (p. 325) or a chameleon cloak (p. 315)
of the same color and pattern. In addition to blending
in, the character can also consciously change the color
and pattern of their skin to deliberately stand out (+20
on Perception Tests to notice) or simply to produce at-
tractive or interesting colors or patterns. [Low]
   Circadian Regulation: The morph only requires
2 hours of sleep to maintain health and function at
peak mental capacity. The character dreams con-
stantly while asleep and can both fall asleep and
wake up almost instantly. In addition, the character
can easily and with no ill-effects shift to a 2-day
cycle, where they are awake for 44 hours and sleep
for 4. [Moderate]
   Claws: The morph has retractable claws like those
of a cat. These claws do not interfere with the char-
acter's manual dexterity and are razor sharp. How-
ever, they are relatively small and only do 1d10 + 1
+ (SOM ÷ 10) damage, with an AP of –1. As a result,
they are legal in almost all habitats and are considered
tools as much as weapons. [Low]
   Clean Metabolism: The morph's symbiotic bacteria,
gut flora, and glands have been genetically engineered
to keep the morph “clean.” The morph also produces
smart antibiotics that prevent the growth of any
bacteria or yeasts in it or on its skin. As a result, the
morph is completely immune to infections, dental cav-
ities, and bad breath, its sweat has no scent, and the
morph's efficient digestion produces somewhat less
solid waste and less odorous chemicals. [Moderate]
   Drug Glands: The morph has specially-tailored
glands designed to produce specific hormones or
chemicals and release them in the body. The charac-
ter has control over these glands and can release the
chemicals at will. Each type of drug gland is consid-
ered a separate enhancement. For potential drugs and
chemicals, see p. 317. [Low]
   Eelware: Derived from electric eel genetics, a char-
acter can have eelware implanted so that it connects
to a network of bioconductors in the hands and feet
(or other limbs), allowing the character to generate
stunning shocks with a touch. Eelware inflicts shock
damage (p. 204) exactly like a pair of shock gloves.
Eelware can also be used to power implants and spe-
cially designed handheld devices by touch. [Low]
   Emotional Dampers: This low-cost alternative to
endocrine control (p. 304) allows the user to vol-
untarily damp their morph's emotional responses
and various non-verbal cues like pupil dilation, eye
movement, or vocal tone. Using this augmentation
allows the user to lie and conceal their emotions in
such as way as oo fool the keenest observer; apply a
+30 modifier to Deception and Impersonation Tests.
This modification does not affect methods of detecting
lies and emotions that involve reading the character's
neural state, including psi-gamma sleights. However,
this augmentation damps out all emotional responses
and so causes the character to be less persuasive in re-
al-time personal interactions, imposing a –10 modifier
to other Social skill tests like Persuasion. Characters
can turn this augmentation on or off at will. [Low]
   Endocrine Control: This augmentation modifies the
morph's endocrine system, giving the character fine
control over their hormone output. This allows the
character to completely control their appetite and
emotions and to regulate pain. They receive a +30
modifier against the effects of hunger, fear, and any
forms of emotional manipulation, such as the Drive
Emotion sleight. This augmentation also allows char-
acter to lie with perfect conviction and to completely
fool all methods of lie detection that do not rely
on the target's neural output; apply a +20 modifier
to Deception Tests. It also allows the character to
remain awake for 48 hours without penalty, but after
this time the character begins experiencing normal
%%% 307.txt %%%
fatigue. Finally, the ability to regulate pain reception
allows the character to ignore the –10 modifier from
1 wound. [High]
   Enhanced Pheromones: The morph's biochemistry
has been altered so that it produces enhanced phero-
monal signals that subconsciously affect the behavior
of other humans in the vicinity. These pheromones
make the character more attractive and trustworthy to
the target; apply a +10 modifier to appropriate Social
skill tests, such as Persuasion. This augmentation only
affects characters who can smell the pheromones, and
it does not affect uplifts or xenomorphs. [Low]
   Enhanced Respiration: By boosting both lung ef-
ficiency and the blood's oxygen-carrying capacity, the
character can live comfortably in both high and low
pressure environments, from 0.2 atmospheres to 5
atmospheres, with no dizziness or need for gradual
decompression. In addition, the character can hold
their breath for up to 30 minutes when performing
minimal activity or for up to 10 minutes while per-
forming highly strenuous activity. [Low]
   Gills: The morph's lung tissue has been adapted to
function as gills, allowing the morph to breathe both
air and water, as long as the water is not toxic or too
stagnant. Characters with this augmentation breathe
in water and then expel the water through slits just
underneath their lowest pair of ribs that seal when the
character is not underwater. [Low]
   Grip Pads: The morph possesses specialized pads
on its palms, lower arms, shins, and the bottoms of
its feet. Designed to emulate the pads on gecko feet,
characters can support themselves on a wall or ceiling
by placing any two of these pads against any surface
not made from a material specially designed to resist
this augmentation. Characters can climb any surface
and move easily across ceilings that can support their
weight. Apply a +30 modifier to Climbing Tests. The
pads must be free to touch the surface the character is
climbing (no gloves). The nature of these pads is obvi-
ous to anyone looking at them, but they do not impair
the character's sense of touch or manual dexterity. If
combined with the vacuum sealing augmentation, the
character can even stick to surfaces in the vacuum of
space. [Low]
   Hibernation: The character can voluntarily reduce
the morph's metabolism to the point that the morph
requires only 5% of the normal amount of food,
water, and air. The character appears to sink into a
deep sleep, but can maintain a dim awareness of both
touch and sound and so can be easily awakened. En-
tering or leaving this state requires 3 minutes where
the character is relatively helpless. With sufficient
air, characters can safely hibernate for up to 40 days
without food or water. [Low]
   Muscle Augmentation: The morph's muscle mass
has been enhanced and toned and myofibers strength-
ened. Apply a +5 modifier to SOM. [High]
   Neurachem: This bioware modification enhances
the character's chemical synapses and juices their
neurotransmitters, drastically speeding up neural
connections. Neurachem can be mentally activated or
triggered by charged emotions. Level 1 neurachem in-
creases the character's Speed stat by +1, with no side
effect. Level 2 raises the Speed stat by +2, but each
time it is used the character suffers a nervous system
fatigue hangover for 1 hour after the boost wears off
(apply a –20 modifier to all actions). [High (Level 1),
Expensive (Level 2)]
   Poison Gland: Similar to the drug gland, this
morph has special glands that produce poisons,
like the venom glands of a snake. The morph has
poison glands in its fingers and mouth, so that it can
deliver either poison by scratching someone with a
fingernail, biting them hard enough to draw blood,
or even by sharing a beverage with someone or spit-
ting into their drink. The morph is immune to the
poisons it produces. These glands may not produce
nanotoxins. [Low]
   Prehensile Feet: The morph's feet and leg joints are
altered so that its toes are longer and more dexter-
ous and the big toe is transformed into an opposable
thumb. Physically, the morph's feet resemble a longer
narrower hand or a human foot with finger (and
thumb)-like toes. The character can walk normally
but must wear specially designed shoes. However, this
morph runs somewhat slower than a morph with un-
modified feet (–1 meter per Action Turn). In addition,
the morph's hips are slightly modified to allow greater
mobility. In a properly constructed chair, or when
floating in zero-G, the character can use both their
hands and their feet to manipulate the same object.
Most morphs used by characters who live in zero-G
possess this augmentation. [Low]
   Prehensile Tail: A long (1.5 meters) prehensile tail
is added to the morph's backside, extending out from
the tailbone. This tail is prehensile and may be used to
grab, hold, and even manipulate objects. The character
can control the tail's movements with concentration,
but it otherwise tends to move on its own. The tail
also improves the character's balance; apply a +10 to
any Physical skill tests where balance is a factor. [Low]
   Sex Switch: A complex suite of alterations allows
the character to switch their physical sex to male,
female, hermaphrodite, or neuter. This change is
mentally triggered but takes approximately 1 week to
complete. [Moderate]
   Skin Pocket: The morph has a pocket within its skin
layer, capable of holding and providing concealment
(+30) for small items. [Trivial]
   Temperature Tolerance: The morph's temperature
regulation and circulation are both substantially en-
hanced allowing the character to survive in tempera-
tures as low as –30 degrees Celsius and as high as 60
degrees Celsius without discomfort or ill effects. [Low]
   Toxin Filters: The morph gains an improved liver
and kidneys and biological filters in its lungs. Charac-
ters with this augmentation are immune to all chemi-
cal and biological toxins, including everything from
recreational chemicals to nerve agents to spoiled food.
In addition, the character can safely and comfortably
%%% 308.txt %%%
SYNTHMORPHS AND
BIOWARE
Though bioware is preferred and more common,
many types of bioware can be mimicked with cy-
bernetics. This is especially useful for synthmorphs/
robots, which cannot be enhanced with bioware.
The following bioware items may be replicated as
cybernetics for synthmorphs and robots:
  - Chameleon Skin
  - Drug Glands
  - Eelware
  - Emotional Dampers
  - Enhanced Senses (All)
  - Grip Pads
  - Mental Augmentations (All)
  - Muscle Augmentation
  - Neurachem
  - Poison Glands
  - Prehensile Feet
  - Prehensile Tail                                ■



 breathe smoke and drink salt water. Unlike medich-
 ines, toxin immunity prevents the character from ex-
 periencing even brief harm or discomfort from a toxin
 (medichines merely rapidly repair damage caused by
 the toxin and then remove it from the morph). This
 augmentation provides no resistance to concentrated
 acid, nanotechnological attacks, or similar destruc-
 tive agents. Some characters with this augmentation
 learn to enjoy the taste of various chemical toxins like
 cyanide or arsenic. [Moderate]
    Vacuum Sealing: To possess this augmentation, the
 character must also possess some form of bioware
 armor or carapace armor. The morph has been spe-
 cially designed to survive the effects of vacuum. The
 character's skin resists vacuum as well as protecting
 the wearer from temperatures from –75 to 100 C.
 In addition, the character's mouth, nose, and other
 orifices can seal sufficiently well to resist vacuum,
 and the morph possesses a special membrane that
 extends over their eyes, allowing the character to
 see in vacuum without risking any eye damage. This
 augmentation is usually combined with either the en-
 hanced respiration or oxygen storage augmentation,
 or both together. [High]



 CYBERWARE
Very little cyberware is physically implanted. Instead,
the morph is placed in a healing vat (p. 326) and the
vat's nanobots construct the cyberware inside the bio-
morph's body. Cyberware is rarely used for anything
that can be accomplished using bioware.
  Synthmorphs and bots may also also use cyberware.
ENHANCED SENSES
   In addition to being able to duplicate the affects of
all bioware enhanced senses, there are a few enhanced
senses that can only be produced using cyberware.
   Anti-Glare: This visual mod eliminates penalties for
glare. [Low]
   Electrical Sense: The character can sense electric
fields. Within 5 meters, the character can instantly
tell if an electrical device is on or off and can see the
precise location of electrical wiring behind a wall or
inside a device. This sense gives the character a +10
modifier on any test involving analyzing, repairing, or
modifying electrical equipment. [Low]
   Radiation sense: The character can sense the pres-
ence and approximate source of all forms of danger-
ous radiation, including neutrons, charged particles,
and cosmic rays. [Low]
   T-Ray Emitter: Mounted under the skin of the
user's forehead, this implant generates low-powered
beams of terahertz radiation (T-rays) that allow the
character to see using reflected T-rays. As discussed in
Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302, this implant combined
with the enhanced vision enhancement (or a terahertz
sensor) allows the user to effectively see through cloth,
plastic, wood, masonry, composites, and ceramics as
well as being able to determine the composition of
various materials. This implant allows the user to see
using reflected T-rays for 20 meters in a normal atmo-
sphere and for 100 meters in vacuum. [Low]

MENTAL AUGMENTATION
These cybernetic augmentations enhance the brain
and mental functions.
  Access Jacks: Usually located in the base of the skull
or neck, this implant is an external socket with a direct
neural interface. It allows the character to establish a
direct wired connection using a fiberoptic cable to
external devices or other characters, which can be
useful in places where wireless links are unreliable or
complete privacy is required. Two characters linked
via access jack can “speak” mind-to-mind and transfer
information between their mesh inserts and other im-
plants. All synthmorphs have these by default. [Low]
   Dead Switch: This cortical stack (p. 300) accessory is
designed to keep the stack from falling into the wrong
hands. If the morph is killed, the dead switch wipes
and melts the cortical stack completely, so that the ego
cannot be recovered. This option is generally only used
by covert operatives with recent backups. [Low]
   Emergency Farcaster: Only characters with corti-
cal stacks can possess this augmentation. The morph
has an implanted quantum farcaster (p. 314) linked
to a highly secure storage facility. The high cost of
this implant also covers the cost of this storage. Using
standard radio and quantum encryption, the farcaster
broadcasts full backups of the character's ego (pulled
from the cortical stack) once every 48 hours. At the
gamemaster's discretion, the backup interval may be
scheduled more or less frequently, keeping in mind
that ego broadcasts are generally limited for security
%%% 309.txt %%%
purposes and because they hog bandwidth. These
broadcasts only work when the character is in radio
contact with the storage facility and is typically only
used inside a habitat to broadcast backups back to a
nearby space ship. If the radio broadcasts are blocked
or jammed, this device cannot make backups.
   In the event of a farcaster failure, this augmentation
also includes a single-use emergency neutrino broad-
caster (p. 314) as well. This broadcaster contains ap-
proximately 10 nanograms of antimatter stored in an
orange-sized triply-redundant magnetic containment
vessel. If the character is dying or urgently wishes to
depart the morph, this tiny amount of antimatter is
brought into contact with a similarly tiny amount of
matter in a controlled fashion that generates a single
brief and carefully coded neutrino pulse of the ego's
most recent backup. However, the heat generated by
this process literally cooks the entire morph, killing it
and destroying all implants and electronics in or on it.
  This entire process takes less than 0.1 second and
the broadcast can be received as long as the neu-
trino receiver is within 100 astronomical units of
the character. Within the solar system, this implant
effectively guarantees the character's backup. It is less
useful on exoplanets where the character is out of
neutrino range of their backup facility. The amount
of antimatter carried by this implant is sufficiently
small enough that it does not produce an explosion
and will not damage any surrounding objects. Most
habitats carefully scan all visitors to determine if they
have this implant and if the amounts of antimatter
involved are sufficiently low as not to pose a danger
to the habitat and its inhabitants, and some ban this
implant entirely. [Expensive]
   Ghostrider Module: This implant allows the
character to carry another infomorph inside their
head. This infomorph could be another muse, an AI,
a backed-up ego, or a fork. The module is linked to
the character's mesh inserts, so the ghost-rider can
access the mesh. The character may limit the ghost-
rider's access, or may allow them direct access to their
sensory information, thoughts, communications, and
other implants. [Low]
   Mnemonic Augmentation: A character with this
augmentation and a cortical stack can access digital
recordings of all of the sensory data they have ex-
perienced in XP format (and they may share these
recordings with others). Mnemonic augmentation
differs from the eidetic memory bioware because it
allows characters to digitally share all of their sensory
data with others. It also allows them to closely ex-
amine sensory data they did not initially look at. For
example, If the character glanced at a note but did not
read it, they can later use image enhancement soft-
ware to enhance this image and in most cases actually
read what the note said. Mnemonic augmentation
allows the character to clearly hear all background
noises, like a conversation at a nearby table that the
character only initially heard a few words of. Using
mnemonic augmentation to retrieve a specific piece of
information is quite easy, but usually requires between
2 and 20 minutes of concentration. [Low]
   Multi-Tasking: Only characters with cortical stacks
can possess this augmentation. The character has an
advanced computer installed in their brain that uses
the data in the cortical stack to create several simulta-
neous short-term forks to handle various mental tasks.
By design, this computer automatically reintegrates
all of these forks into the character's core personality
after a maximum of 4 hours, earlier if desired. This
augmentation allows the character to both plan a
speech and engage in intensive mesh-browsing while
simultaneously fighting a gun battle or running from
pursuit, since each of the forks operates independently.
However, these forks can only perform purely mental
or on-line interactions. This augmentation can pro-
duce a maximum of two forks at a time, giving the
character an extra two Complex Actions on every
Action Phase for mental or on-line actions. This im-
plant cannot be used simultaneously with any other
augmentation that allows for extra actions, or with
the mental speed augmentation (p. 308). [High]
   Puppet Sock: This implanted computer allows the
biomorph's body (the “puppet”) to be controlled by
another character (the “puppeteer”). While active, the
puppet has no control over their body and is simply
along for the ride (at the gamemaster's discretion,
puppets who are tormented by repeated or exten-
sive loss of control may suffer mental stress). The
puppeteer may directly “jam” the puppet or remote
control it in the same way that robots and pods are
teleoperated (p. 196). The puppeteer must either be
ghost-riding the puppet (see the Ghostrider Module, p.
307) or have a direct communications link (via mesh,
radio, laser, etc.). [Moderate]

PHYSICAL AUGMENTATIONS
This implants enhance the morph's physical body.
  Cyberclaws: The bones on the back of the morph's
hand are bonded to smart material claws. These claws
can extend through concealed ports in the morph's
skin and extend 6 inches past the morph's knuckles.
These razor-sharp weapons inflict 1d10 + 3 + (SOM
÷ 10) damage and have an AP of –2. If combined
with eelware (p. 304), they can also inflict electric
shocks. Likewise, cyberclaws can also deliver poison
or nanotoxins secreted from a poison gland (p. 305)
or implanted nanotoxins. [Low]
  Cyberlimb: In an age when arms and legs can
easily be regrown, many people consider cybernetic
prostheses to be vulgar and distasteful. The Scum
and others, however, treat them as iconic symbols
of self-expression. Standard replacement cyberlimbs
function the same as their biological equivalents,
though that particular limb receives a +3/+3 Armor
bonus when targeted specifically (this bonus does not
apply to synthmorphs). Cyberlimbs may be masked
to look real (see Synthetic Mask, p. 311), and may
also feature small compartments for hiding/storing
small objects. [Moderate]
%%% 310.txt %%%
   Cyberlimb Plus: More extravagant cyberlimb
models are also available, though they require more
severe body alteration to accommodate. These limbs
apply a +5 SOM bonus per limb (maximum +10).
They may be replacement limbs or “extra” limbs an-
chored in the body's skeletal frame. These cyberlimbs
may not be masked. [High]
   Hand Laser: The morph has a weapon-grade laser
implanted in its forearm, with a flexible waveguide
leading to a lens located between the first two knuck-
les on the morph's dominant hand. The laser fires
from this waveguide, inflicting 2d10 damage with 0
AP. The laser is powered by a small nuclear battery
located in the morph's torso, good for 50 shots before
it must be recharged like other beam weapon batteries
(p. 338). [Moderate]
   Hardened Skeleton: The morph's skeleton has been
laced with strengthening materials. Apply a +5 DUR
and +5 SOM bonus. [High]
   Oxygen Reserve: The morph has a miniature
oxygen tank and rebreather installed in its torso. This
implant provides the equivalent of the life support
system in a light vacsuit (p. 333), allowing the charac-
ter to breathe comfortably for up to 3 hours. It feeds
oxygen directly to the morph's blood stream, avoiding
problems with pressure changes. Implanted sensors
automatically cause the character to use the stored
oxygen if they detect poisonous or insufficient atmo-
sphere. Without vacuum sealing, the character can
only survive in vacuum for 5 minutes, but remains
conscious and active for the entire time, giving them
far more time to find shelter or a vacsuit than charac-
ters without this implant. For every hour the character
is in a breathable atmosphere, this implant recovers
one hour of oxygen storage. The implant can be fully
recharged within 15 minutes if the character is in a
high-pressure mostly oxygen atmosphere. [Low]
   Reflex Boosters: The morph's spinal column and
nervous system is rewired with superconducting
materials, boosting transmission speed. This raises
the character's REF by +10 and improves Speed by
+1. [Expensive]

NANOWARE
All augmentation nanoware is advanced nanotech-
nology (p. 328), consisting of a grape-sized nanobot
generator that produces specialized nanomachines.
Nanoware is available for synthmorphs and bots in
addition to biomorphs.
   Implanted Nanotoxins: The morph has an im-
planted nanobot hive that produces nanotoxins (p.
324). This implant is designed so that the character
can deploy these nanobots instantly via a scratch with
claws, spraying with saliva, or simply making continu-
ous bare-skin contact. Characters can choose whether
or not to deploy these nanobots. Each nanotoxin
generator only produces a single variety of nanobots,
with the most common types being ones designed to
kill or incapacitate almost any living target or ones
designed to destroy delicate machinery. Characters
are immune to their own nanotoxins. Nanotoxins
are highly restricted and many habitats will not allow
anyone with this implant on board. [Moderate]
   Medichines: This is the most common form of
nanoware. These nanobots monitor the user's body at
a cellular level and fix any problems that arise.
   Medichines eliminate most diseases, drugs, and
toxins (but not nanodrugs or nanotoxins) before
they can do more than minor harm to the host (see
Drug Effects, p. 317). If desired, the user can tempo-
rarily override this protection to permit intoxication
or other effects, but unless the character activates a
second specially labeled override, medichines prevent
the toxins from accumulating to lethal or permanently
harmful levels. In this case, they can also be activated
at a later point to reduce a drug or toxin's remaining
duration by half.
   Medichines allow the character to ignore the effects
of 1 wound. They also speed normal healing as noted
under Biomorph Healing, p. 208. If the user suffers
5 or more wounds at once, or more than 6 wounds
in an hour, the damage has exceeded the medichines'
ability to repair. In this case, the medichines place the
character into a medical stasis, where their mind and
body are perfectly preserved, but where the character
cannot act in any way. Under these circumstances the
medichines also send out a priority call for emergency
services via the character's mesh inserts.
   Medichines for synthmorphs and bots consist
of nanobots that monitor and repair the shell's
integrity and internal system functions. Note that
the synthmorph version of medichines allows the
synthmorph to self-repair in the same manner by
which a biomorph with medichines would naturally
heal (p. 208). [Low]
   Mental Speed: With this nanoware system, nano-
bots alter the character's neural architecture and
augment the functioning of their neurons. The char-
acter can deliberately speed up their mind to think
and also receive and process sensory information far
faster than ordinary humans. Time seems to subjec-
tively slow down for the character, allowing them
to carefully plan their next action, even if they only
have a split second to do so. With this system active,
the character can discern things occurring too fast
for a normal human to perceive, such as the indi-
vidual frames of an old analog film or understanding
sounds that were accelerated to many times their
normal speed. The character can also read 10 times
faster than normal and can track the paths of bullets
and similar fast-moving objects with a successful
Perception Test.
  When using this augmentation, the character gains
two extra Complex Actions during each Action Phase
that may only be used for mental actions. The charac-
ter also receives a +30 Initiative bonus. The character
thinks at normal speed whenever this nanoware is in-
active. This nanoware is incompatible with any other
augmentation that provides any form of extra actions,
such as multi-tasking. This augmentation can be used
%%% 311.txt %%%
as often as desired, but actively using it renders ordi-
nary conversation and social interactions difficult and
requires concentration to maintain. [High]
   Nanophages: These nanobots patrol the body, alert
for signs of intrusive nanodrugs or -toxins and de-
stroying them before they have more than a minor
effect. Nanophages provide automatic immunity
against nanodrugs and nanotoxins unless they are
specifically commanded to stand down by the user, via
their mesh implants. [Moderate]
   Oracles: These neural macrosensing nanobots pay
attention to the sensory input on which the charac-
ter is not focusing, alerting them about important
things they might otherwise overlook. Oracles also
act as a sort of memory buffer and search aid, ex-
tending short term memory, helping the character
recall memories and details, and crosschecking
them with other memories. Oracles negate Percep-
tion modifi ers for distraction, apply a +10 modi-
fier to Investigation Tests, and add a +30 bonus to
memory-related tests. [Moderate]
   Respirocytes: These nanobots act as highly-efficient
artificial red blood cells, increasing the ability to
transfer oxygen and carbon dioxide. This increases
the morph's ability to hold their breath to 4 hours
and increases DUR by +5. [Moderate]
   Skillware: The morph's brain is laced with a net-
work of artificial neurons that may be formatted with
downloaded information. This allows the user to
download skillsofts (p. 332) into their brains, gaining
the use of those programmed skills until the skillsoft
is erased or replaced. Skillware systems are only
capable of handling 100 total skill points worth of
skillsofts at a time. [High]
   Skinflex: This disguise implant allows the user to
restructure their facial features and musculature and
alter skin tone and hair color. The entire process takes
a mere 20 minutes. Skinflex adds +30 to Disguise
Tests. [Moderate]
   Skinlink: Skinlink nanobots live on the morph's
external skin or shell, automatically swarming over
and creating a physical connection with any electron-
ics the user touches. They also take advantage of the
electrical field in a biomorph's skin for communica-
tion. They allow the user to communicate and mesh
with any devices merely by touching them. This
is considered a wired link, and so is not subject to
wireless interception or interference. Two skinlinked
characters can also communicate and mesh simply by
touching. [Moderate]
   Wrist-Mounted Tools: The morph has a 6 centime-
ter-wide metal band containing nanobot generators
implanted around each wrist. These nanobots link to-
gether to duplicate the function of a utilitool (p. 326),
creating narrow, highly flexible arms that each ends in
a specialized tool. These nanobots can also produce
tiny fiber optics to allow the character to see through
small openings, as well as being able to create small
weapons equal to bioware claws. The fact that these
tool are mentally controlled gives the character a +20
modifier to skills involving repairing or modifying de-
vices with mechanical parts, opening locks or disarm-
ing alarm systems, or performing first aid. [Moderate]

COSMETIC MODS
In an age of universal beauty, artistic cosmetic modi-
fication of your body is commonly pursued by many
transhumans. Body mods once considered dangerous
or edgy are now safe and commonplace, especially
among factions like the anarchists, scum, or brinkers.
   Bodysculpting: If your morph's enhanced physique
isn't enough, you can take it further with custom
bodysculpting such as as elongated ears or fingers,
nose alteration, hair addition/removal, feathers, exotic
%%% 312.txt %%%
eyes, snakeskin, endowed genitalia, and more unusual
physical alterations. [Low]
   Nanotats: Tattoos created with nanobots can
move around the body, change shape/color/bright-
ness, texture, alternate text and images, and/or even
create minor holographic effects on the skin's sur-
face, all controllable via mesh inserts. [Low]
   Piercings: Name any part of the body and some-
one's figured out a way to pierce it, probably mul-
tiple times. Hoops, barbells, plugs, and chains are
extremely common, often made of shapechanging
smart materials. [Trivial]
   Scarification: Given modern medical abilities, scars
of any sort are purely an affectation. [Trivial]
   Scent Alteration: Minor changes to a body's bio-
chemistry can alter a character's natural smell or
constantly perfume them. [Low]
   Skindyes: Dye jobs are available in all conceivable
colors and patterns. [Trivial]
   Subdermal Implants: Adding small implants under
the skin can create bumps, ridges, piercing anchors,
and similar textures and alterations. [Trivial]

ROBOTIC ENHANCEMENTS
The following modifications are only available to
synthmorphs/robots.

ARMOR
These armor modifications replace the synthmorph's
built-in Armor rating.
   Heavy Combat Armor: The synthmorph's frame is
loaded with armor that offers protection from heavy
weapons for serious combat operations. This modi-
fication is bulky and noticeable; the bot frame is en-
cased in a heavy-duty carapace. It increases the bot's
built-in Armor to 16/16. The shell's mobility systems
and power output are also enhanced to deal with the
extra load. [High]
   Industrial Armor: The shell is equipped with protec-
tion against collisions, extreme weather, industrial ac-
cidents, and similar wear-and-tear. Increase the bot's
built-in Armor rating to 10/10. [Moderate]
   Light Combat Armor: The synthmorph's frame is
protected by armor designed for policing and secu-
rity duties. This increases the bot's built-in Armor to
14/12. [Moderate]

MOBILITY SYSTEMS
Shells are designed with a wide-range of propulsion
systems, and are sometimes built for a specific environ-
ment/gravity. Some synthmorphs may have multiple
mobility systems. Many such systems are retractable,
meaning they can be folded away into the shell's frame.
  Hopper: Hoppers have two or more legs designed
to propel the morph forward or up, much like a frog
or grasshopper. [Moderate]
  Hovercraft: The shell uses an impeller to blast a
cushion of high-pressure air off the surface below,
repelling the frame off the ground (modern hovercraft
do not use rubber skirts). Most hovercraft travel a
meter or so above the ground, but can temporarily
levitate themselves higher for short periods. [Low]
   Ionic: The shell uses principles of magnetohydro-
dynamics to levitate and fly, by ionizing surrounding
air into plasma to create lift and momentum. The
shell is also spun for stability. This system does not
work in vacuum, but an underwater version uses the
same mechanics for propulsion in liquid environ-
ments. [High]
   Microlight: Popular in low-grav and microgravity
environments, microlights encompass several types
of ultralight or lighter-than-air systems, such as pow-
ered paragliders, autogyros, balloons, aerostats, and
blimps. These systems do not work in vacuum. [Low]
   Roller: Only for circular shells, this system allows
the synthmorph to roll like a ball. The shell rolls
around an interior axle, propelled by a motor-driven
pendulum. [Moderate]
   Rotorcraft: Rotating blades create lift, allowing
the shell to move and hover like a helicopter. Most
models use tilt-rotors or tilt-wings so that the rotor-
blades may be moved forward (for faster propeller-
like propulsion) and for better maneuverability in
zero-G. This system does not work in vacuum. [Low]
   Snake: Commonly used by slitheroids, these shells
use lateral undulation, flexing their body from left to
right and waving their frame forward. Such shells may
also use sidewinding or a concertina motion (straight-
ening forward, then retracting the rear) to move. They
also featured gyroscope stabilization so that they may
circle into a hoop and roll like a wheel. [Moderate]
   Submarine: Designed for undersea mobility, subma-
rine shells use propellers or pumpjets to push through
water. [Moderate]
   Tracked: Tracked shells use smart rotating treads to
work their way across surfaces that would bog down
other ground vehicles. They can prop themselves up
in order to overcome taller obstacles or to lay them-
selves down to bridge across a ditch or crevice. [Low]
   Thrust Vector: These shells use either turbofans or
turbojets to create atmospheric lift with a set of wings.
The engines may be maneuvered to point and generate
thrust in different directions for vertical takeoffs/land-
ings and better maneuverability in zero-G. [Moderate]
   Walker: Walkers use two or more limbs to walk or
crawl across a surface. Many use grip pads (p. 305) or
magnetic systems (p. 310) to stick to surfaces. [Low]
   Wheeled: Most wheeled shells feature smart
spokes that allow the wheels to conform their shape
to obstacles and even climb stairs. Some low-grav
shells feature puncture-resistant and self-repairing
compressed-gas tires. [Low]
   Winged: Primarily used by smaller shells, this system
of four independently-controlled wings allows the
shell to hover or move rapidly in any direction. [Low]

PHYSICAL MODIFICATIONS
These mods are applied to the shell's physical frame.
  Extra Limbs: The shell is equipped with one or
more extra limbs. A character using these limbs
%%% 313.txt %%%
 suffers an off-hand modifier (p. 193). These limbs
may be arms (with hand/grippers/etc.), legs, tentacle-
like, or otherwise articulated and/or prehensile. Some
 shells have rotational frames that allow them to move
limbs around their body. [Low]
    Fractal Digits: The synthmorph has “bush robot”
digits that are capable of splitting into smaller digits,
 and those smaller digits into micro digits, and so on
down to the micrometer scale, allowing for ultra-fine
manipulation. Apply a +20 COO modifier where such
fine manipulation is a factor (such as detailed repair
work). The bot must have functioning nanoscopic
vision (p. 311) to get this bonus. [Moderate]
    Hidden Compartment: The shell has a concealed
 aperture for a shielded interior compartment, ideal for
 storing valuables or smuggling contraband. Apply a
–30 modifier to detect this compartment either manu-
 ally or with sensor scans. [Low]
    Magnetic System: A magnetic system allows the
 shell to cling to most ferrous materials. This enables
the character to walk in zero-G situations by magneti-
 cally adhering surfaces, hang upside down, and hold
onto devices without letting them drop or drift away.
The shell receives a +30 modifier whenever maintain-
ing a magnetic hold on something. [Low]
    Modular Design: This shell is designed to lock to-
 gether with similar modular morphs in different archi-
tectural patterns to create larger gestalt forms. When
united with other modules, the group is treated as a
 single unit/morph, with shared capabilities. If dam-
 aged and then separated, damage and wounds are dis-
tributed evenly between modules; uneven amounts are
 allocated randomly. The exact capabilities of different
 shapes depends on the composition, and is largely left
in the gamemaster's hands. [High]
    Pneumatic Limbs: The limbs are equipped with
pneumatic cylinder systems that can generate up to
1,500 pounds of thrust. This allows the shell to push
off and make impressive jumps (a synth of human
 size/weight can leap over 2 meters up). Apply a +20 to
Freerunning Tests. A pneumatic limb used to strike an
opponent in unarmed combat inflicts an extra 1d10
damage. [Low]
    Retracting/Telescoping Limbs: The shell's limbs can
 either be retracted completely inside it's frame and/or
 extended for extra length (usually up to 1 or 2 meters
 extra). Telescoping limbs may give the shell a reach
 advantage in melee combat (p. 204). [Low]
    Shape Adjusting: This shell is made from smart
materials that allow it to alter its shape, altering its
height, width, circumference, and external features,
while retaining the same mass. This modification is
typically employed to reshape the morph into special
 configurations adapted to specific tasks (for example,
lengthening to crawl through a tunnel, widening its
base for stability, expanding to reach out and attach
to multiple access point simultaneously, and so on).
This mod also allows the morph to change its features
for disguise purposes; apply a +30 modifier to Dis-
 guise Tests. [High]
   Structural Enhancement: This modification bolsters
the shell's structural integrity, boosting its ability to
take damage. Increase Durability by 10 and Wound
Threshold by 2. [Moderate]
   Swarm Composition: The shell is not a single unit
but a swarm of hundreds of insect-sized robotic mi-
crodrones. Each individual “bug” is capable of crawl-
ing, rolling, hopping several meters, or using nano-
copter fan blades for airlift. The cyberbrain, sensor
systems, and implants are distributed throughout the
swarm. Though the swarm can “meld” together into
a roughly child-sized shape, the swarm is incapable of
tackling physical tasks like grabbing, lifting, or hold-
ing as a unit. Individual bugs, however, are quite ca-
pable of interfacing with electronics. Swarms cannot
carry most gear or wear armor, and may not make
strength-based SOM-linked skill tests. For combat
purposes, use the same rules as given for nanoswarms,
p. 328. Damage and wounds are reflected as dam-
aged/massacred bugs. The swarm may be “healed” by
manufacturing more bugs.[High]
   Synthetic Mask: The synthmorph is equipped
with a realistic outer casing of faux-skin and care-
fully sculpted to pass as a biomorph (perhaps even a
particular person). The morph can cry, spit, have sex,
and will even bleed if cut. Only a detailed physical
examination or a radar, teraherz, or x-ray scan will
detect the synthmorph's true nature, and even then
such exams/scans suffer a –30 modifier. [Moderate]
   Weapon Mount: The shell carries a built-in (or built-
on) weapon. This weapon mount may be either internal
(concealed, only weapons small in relation to the shell
may fit, –30 to Perception Tests to detect) or external
(visible). It may be fixed (one direction only), swiveling
(limited field of fire), or on an articulated mount (all
directions). [Low; Moderate for concealed/articulated]

SENSORS
360° Vision: The shell's visual sensors are situated for
a 360-degree field of vision. [Low]
   Chemical Sniffer: This sensor detects molecules in the
air and analyzes their chemical composition. It enables
Chemistry Tests to determine the presence of gases, in-
cluding toxins and other fumes. It can also detect the
presence of explosives and firearms. [Moderate]
   Lidar: This sensor emits laser light and measures
the reflections to judge range, speed, and image the
target. See Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]
   Nanoscopic Vision: The shell's visual sensors can
focus like a microscope, using advanced superlens
techniques to beat the optical diffraction limit and
image objects as small as a nanometer. This allows
the character to view and analyze objects as small as
blood cells and even individual nanobots. The synth-
morph must stay relatively steady to view objects at
this scale. [Moderate]
   Radar: This sensor system bounces radio or micro-
waves off targets and measures the reflected waves
to judge size, composition, and motion. See Using
Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Low]
%%% 314.txt %%%
ARMOR
Modern personal armor systems have advanced from
the high modulus polyethylene thermoplastics and
aramid fabrics of the early 21st century. Armor in
Eclipse Phase is derived from biotech, in the form of
organoweave fibers and crystalline-grown plates, and
nanotech, in the form of shock-absorbing fullerene (p.
298) materials. Occasionally other materials are used,
such as metallic glass plates or shear-resistant fluids
that harden against impacts. Such armor protects
against (armor-piercing) bullets and kinetic impacts
as well as bladed weapons and piercing sharp objects.
They also insulate against both the explosive heating
of energy weapons and electrical shocks. While such
armor protects against bullets, the layers of mate-
rial catch the bullet and redistribute its kinetic energy
across the body, which can still result in severe blunt
force trauma.
   Rules for armor in combat can be found on p. 194.
Armored exoskeletons are listed on p. 343.
   Armor Clothing: The extra-resilient organoweave
fibers and fullerene materials that offer basic protec-
tion against kinetic and energy weapons can be woven
in with normal smart materials to create a wide range
of discreet armor clothing that provides a subtle level
of security. Such protective garments are indistin-
guishable from regular clothing and come in all styles
and designs. Armor clothing provides an Armor Value
of 3/4. [Trivial]
   Armor Vest: Armor vests provide more thorough
protection to a body's vital areas, covering the abdo-
men and torso completely, protecting the neck with a
rigid collar, and even providing wrap-under protec-
tion for the groin. Though armor vests are not bulky,
they are obvious as armor. Armor vests may be worn
with armor clothing without penalty. Armor vests
provide an Armor Value of 6/6. [Low]
   Body Armor (Light): These high performance armor
outfits protect the wearer from head to toe. An inte-
grated armor vest is supplemented with increased pro-
tection on the limbs and joints, while still managing to
be flexible and non-restrictive. Body armor is typically
worn by security and police forces, and supplemented
with a helmet. It provides an Armor Value of 10/10.
[Low]
   Body Armor (Heavy): Similar to light body armor,
but with extra protective layers, often ergonomically
manufactured to conform to a specific character's
body, and an environmental seal with climate control
to protect the wearer from hostile environments. It
provides an Armor Value of 13/13. [Moderate]
   Crash Suit: Designed for both industrial worksite
safety and protection from accidental zero-G collisions,
crash suits are also favored by sports enthusiasts and
explorers. The basic jumpsuit offers comfortable pro-
tection equal to that of armor clothing. When activat-
ed with an electronic signal, however, elastic polymers
within the suit stiffen and form rigid impact protection
for vital areas. Crash suits provide an Armor Value of
3/4 when inactive and 4/6 when activated. [Low]
   Helmet: This armor accessory is usually worn with
body armor or a battle suit. Light helmets are open,
whereas full helmets latch on and provide an environ-
mental seal with a 12 hour supply of air. Light helmets
provide an Armor Value bonus of +2/+2, whereas full
helmets add +3/+3. Helmets are often equipped with
an ecto (p. 325), a radio booster (p. 313), and sensors
equal to specs (see p. 325). [Trivial]
   Riot Shield: Used for mob suppression, riots shields
are light-weight, tough, and may be set to electrify on
command, stunning anyone who comes into contact
with the outer surface (treat as shock glove effects, p.
334). Riot shields provide an Armor Value bonus of
+3/+2. [Low]
   Second Skin: This lightweight bodysuit, woven
from spider silks and fullerenes, is typically worn
as an underlayer, though some athletes use it as a
uniform. It provides minimal protection, but may be
worn with other armor without penalty. It provides an
Armor Value of 1/3. [Low]
   Smart Skin: Smart skin is an advanced nano-
fluid that covers the wearer's skin. It resembles liquid
mercury but retains the texture and flexibility of
normal skin until activated, at which point the mate-
rial becomes rigid enough to protect the wearer and



                  ARMOR VALUES
ARMOR                             ENERGY KINETIC PAGE
Armor Clothing                      3       4      311
Armor Vest                          6       6      312
Battle Suit Powered Exoskeleton     18     18      344
Bioweave Armor (Light)              2       3      302
Bioweave Armor (Heavy)              3       4      302
Body Armor (Light)                  10     10      312
Body Armor (Heavy)                  13     13      312
Carapace Armor                      11     11      303
Crash Suit (Inactive)               3       4      312
Crash Suit (Active)                 4       6      312
Exowalker                           2       4      344
Hard Suit                           15     15      334
Helmet (Light)                      +2     +2      312
Helmet (Full)                       +3     +3      312
Hyperdense Exoskeleton              6      12      344
Riot Shield                         +3     +2      312
Second Skin                         1       3      312
Smart Skin                          3       2      312
Smart Vac Clothing                  2       4      325
Spray Armor                         2       2      312
Synthmorph Industrial Armor         10     10      310
Synthmorph Combat Armor (Light)     14     12      310
Synthmorph Combat Armor (Heavy)     16     16      310
Transporter Exoskeleton             2       4      344
Trike Exoskeleton                   2       4      344
Vacsuit (Light)                     5       5      333
Vacsuit (Standard)                  7       7      333
%%% 315.txt %%%
distribute the kinetic energy (though still flexible
enough at the joints not to impede movement). A spe-
cialized hive, worn by the character, replenishes the
nanobots and stores them when not in use. Deploying
the nanobots across the body takes a full Action Turn.
Smart skin has an Armor Value of 3/2, and may be
worn with other armor without penalty. [Low]
  Spray Armor: This fast armor application comes in
a spray can and disperses a smart chemical polymer
that sticks to bare flesh (but does not adhere to hair
and eyes). The polymer solidifies into a form fitting
body armor fabric when exposed to body temperature
with the look and feel of a latex suit. Spray armor
does not work on synthetic morphs or on clothing or
other armor. The color and feel of the armor can be
adjusted with electric currents and additional poly-
mers, making it popular among some socialite and
nightlife scenes. The spray-on armor does not wash
off, but degrades 1 point of armor (both energy and
kinetic) every 12 hours. It may be removed with a
special nanotech solvent. Spray armor has an Armor
Value of 2/2. [Low]

ARMOR MODS
Armor modifications add extra materials or coatings
that either enhance the armor's resistance to certain
dangers or provide other effects. Armor mods may be
easily added or removed with the appropriate nano-
bot applicators.
   Ablative Patches: These thin and light slap-on
patches of stick to armor and are designed to absorb
heat and energy from beams and explosions, safely
vaporizing and blowing hot gas away. Ablative
patches increases the Armor Value by +4/+2, but each
hit reduces both the energy and kinetic value of the
ablative armor by 1. [Trivial]
   Chameleon Coating: This provides the armor with
the same effect as the chameleon cloak (p. 315). [Trivial]
   Fireproofing: Fireproofing includes the addition of
heat-resistant ceramic or fire-resistant layers, both
capable of withstanding extremely high temperatures.
Fireproofing increases the Armor Value by +2/+0, and
provides an additional 10 points of armor against
heat or fire specifically. [Trivial]
   Immunogenic System: The immunogenic mod
adds an active nanobot swarm, maintained by a spe-
cialized hive, that coats the outer layer of armor and
also the non-armored parts of the wearer's morph.
It acts as an outer immune system designed to neu-
tralize toxic agents and nanotoxins with which it
comes into contact. This provides immunity to drugs,
toxins, and nanotoxins applied dermally, such as
with a slap patch or splash grenade. It has no effect
on inhaled, oral, or injected drugs (including coated
weapons). [Low]
   Lotus Coating: The armor has been impregnated
with a superhydrophic coating (contact angle of
around 170°) that repels all water-like liquids. If the
armor is splashed by liquid toxins or chemicals, the
effect is reduced since the liquids starts to roll off the
armor. Apply a +30 modifier when defending against
liquid-based attacks. [Trivial]
   Offensive Armor: When activated, the outer layer of
this armor is rigged to shock anyone or anything that
contacts it with electricity. Treat its DV and effect as a
shock baton (p. 334). [Low]
   Reactive Coating: A thick layer of advanced
nanotech is applied to the armor, protecting it with
a colony of nanobots designed to sense incoming
attacks. When an attack strikes the coating, it deto-
nates to disrupt the attack. Bursts and full autofire
are treated as a single attack. A reactive coating
increases the Armor Value by +5/+5, but each deto-
nation automatically inflicts 1 point of damage on
the wearer. Reactive armor also works against melee
attacks, but the attacker also suffers 1d10 ÷ 2 (round
up) points of damage per attack (armor protects)
from the microexplosion. Reactive coating only
works against 5 attacks, after which the specialized
nanobot hive replenishes the coating at the rate of 1
use per hour. [Moderate]
   Refractive Glazing: A combination of reflectors,
refractive metamaterials, and an energy transfer
system with heat radiators provides extra protection
against energy weapons. Increase the Armor Value
by +3/+0. [Low]
   Self-Healing: The armor is equipped with a nano-
hive that acts like repair spray (p. 333). [Moderate]
   Shock Proof: Shock proof armor is electronically
insulated to discharge and reduce the effect of shock
weapons. Apply an additional +10 modifier when resist-
ing the DV and effects of shock weapons (p. 204). [Low]
   Thermal Dampening: Thermal dampening obfus-
cates heat signatures by converting body heat into
electric energy. It makes the target more difficult to
spot with thermal sensors; apply a –30 modifier for
Perception Tests. [Moderate]

COMMUNICATIONS
The oldest and most widespread communications
technology still in regular use is radio. Every habitat
and world inhabited by transhumanity is awash in
radio traffic, with humans, machines, and uplifts all
constantly communicating with one another. The
smallest radios are no larger than a spec of dust and
have a range of no more than 20 meters, while the
largest are the size of a truck and have a range of
many thousands of miles. Radios large and small are
ubiquitous and almost all devices contain at least
short-range radios so they may interact with the
mesh. Most morphs are equipped with basic mesh
inserts (p. 300) that include an implanted radio. For
radio ranges, see p. 296.
  Fiberoptic Cable: Fiberoptic cables are used to
establish wired connections between two devices.
Given the ubiquity of radios and the tangled mess
wires cause, they are typically only used for privacy
(unlike radio communication, fiberoptic signals may
not be intercepted) or in areas with heavy radio
interference. [Trivial]
%%% 316.txt %%%
   Laser/Microwave Link: These portable devices are
used to establish a tight-beam, line-of-sight commu-
nications channel with another laser or microwave
link. The range of these transceivers varies widely
with environmental factors, but approximates 50
kilometers in atmosphere and 500 kilometers in
space (though horizon limits must be kept in mind,
being 5 kilometers at ground level on Earth and less
on smaller bodies). Lasers are subject to interference
from fog, dirt, smoke, and similar visual chaff, while
microwaves may be hindered by metallic obstructions.
These links may only be intercepted by getting directly
in between the beams. Some teams carry a micro ver-
sion of this system, worn on their person, allowing
line of sight intra-team communications that cannot
be intercepted like radio. [Moderate]
   Radio Booster: This device boosts the range and
sensitivity of short-range radios, like those from im-
plants, ectos, or microbugs. The booster must be with
the shorter-ranged device's range (or directly linked
via fiberoptic cable). It will repeat any transmissions
received from that device, but at its extended range of
25 kilometers in urban areas (250 kilometers remote
areas). Broadcasts from a radio booster are easy to
receive by anyone looking for broadcasts (see Wire-
less Scanning, p. 251), though transmissions may be
stealthed (p. 252). Boosters are commonly used by
characters traveling far from habitats or other civi-
lized regions. [Low]

NEUTRINO COMMUNICATORS
Neutrinos are particles that can pass through any
solid matter with ease and are impossible to block. As
a result, they make an ideal medium for communica-
tions. Unfortunately, they are also easy to intercept.
Even a tight beam of neutrinos sent between two lo-
cations can be intercepted simply by placing another
receiver behind the location the broadcaster is sending
to. Neutrino communicators require a large power
plant to power the high energy particle interactions
required to generate the neutrino broadcast. Neutrino
receivers are also relatively large, with the smallest
occupying 100 cubic meters. In most cases, neutrino
communicators are designed to broadcast neutrinos
in all directions, though tight-beam transmissions are
also possible. Quite often neutrino communications
take advantage of quantum farcasting for security.
   Neutrino Transceiver: This transceiver is capable of
generating and receiving neutrino signals at a range of
at least 100 astronomical units. It is large, with a size
of 8 cubic meters (in a cube 2 meters on a side), but
they can be loaded onto large vehicles. To function, it
must be connected to a large power plant, such as one
found in habitats or large spacecraft. The cost and
size of this device includes the computer necessary for
quantum farcasting. [Expensive]

QUANTUM FARCASTERS
Quantum farcasters are special computers designed to
protect a communications channel (such as fiberoptic,
radio, laser/microwave, or neutrino) with unbreak-
able encryption. To function, two or more quantum
farcaster computers must first be entangled together
(on a quantum level) in the same physical location.
The farcasters may then be separated, at which point
they may continue to exchange encrypted data via
quantum teleportation. This data exchange requires
a standard communications link (fiberoptic, radio,
laser/microwave, or neutrino), and so is limited by
the speed of light, but it is a high bandwidth form
of communications. The quantum encryption used
by these entangled farcasters is unbreakable, and any
attempted interception is immediately detected and
neutralized. A quantum farcaster may not be used to
securely communicate with any farcasters other than
the ones it is entangled with.
%%% 317.txt %%%
   Because it is exceptionally safe and secure, quantum
farcasting via neutrino communications is the primary
means of both long-distance communication between
habitats and egocasting (p. 276). The neutrino signal
cannot be blocked and it can only be decrypted if a
character has access to the computer that is sending
or receiving the signal.
  Miniature Radio Farcaster: Miniature farcasters
communicate with each other using standard radio
transceivers. As noted above, they may only securely
communicate with the other farcasters with which they
are entangled. Most miniature farcasters are worn as
jewelry or fitted into clothing or other equipment. [Low]

QUANTUM ENTANGLED COMMUNICATION
The rarest form of communications is quantum en-
tangled (QE) communication. QE communication is
instantaneous and works over any distance, but is
also very limited. QE communication requires pairs
of entangled particles known as qubits. To use QE,
large number of pairs of qubits are created and then
separated from each other. Millions of these sepa-
rated pairs of particles are stored in special containers
known as qubit reservoirs. If two QE communicators
each have a qubit reservoir containing qubits that are
each entangled with qubits in the other communica-
tor's qubit reservoir, then characters can use the two
QE communicators to commutate with one another
instantaneously. Characters can use QE to instantly
communicate between any two locations, even if one
character is in the solar system and the other has
passed through a Pandora gate and is standing on a
planet 500 light years away.
   Each bit of data transmitted between these two QE
comms uses up one qubit. Once all of the qubits are
used up, the two QE comms can no longer communi-
cate with each other until they each get a new batch
of entangled qubits. Qubits are expensive to produce,
contain, and transport, making this an exceedingly
expensive form of communication. As a result, ex-
tremely high bandwidth communications like full
sensory AR and egocasting cannot be performed using
QE communication.
   Portable QE Comm: This is a handheld FTL com-
munications device. The actual communications unit
can be made as small as desired, but must be large
enough to connect to or hold a qubit reservoir. Be-
cause qubit reservoirs are relatively large and must be
replaced, they are rarely implanted. Some miniature
farcasters are designed so that users can also attach
qubit reservoirs to enable them to be used for both
light speed and FTL communication. [Low]
   Low-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: Low-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 10 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 100 hours
of voice or text only communications. [High]
   High-Capacity Qubit Reservoir: High-capacity qubit
reservoirs can be used for 100 hours of high-resolution
video conferencing or meshbrowsing and 1,000 hours
of voice or text only communications. [Expensive]
  BUGS AND
  SURVEILLANCE
  Though surveillance technologies are pervasive
  and easy to come by in Eclipse Phase, secretly
  obtaining information on someone who wants
  to retain privacy can be quite difficult. Micro-
  bugs, smart dust, and similar recording devices
  that are all but invisible may be exceptionally
  easy to put into place, but once they begin ac-
  tively transmitting, they are easy to to detect
  (see Wireless Scanning, p. 251). An eavesdropper
  may attempt to stealth the signal (see Stealthed
  Signals, p. 252), but this is not guaranteed to
  work. Once a signal is detected, locating the
  broadcasting device is usually just a matter of
  time (see Tracking, p. 251).
     Some recording devices attempt to avoid this
  problem by using miniature quantum farcasters
  (p. 314), but those are far larger and more dif-
  ficult to hide. Often the most effective way to
  acquire discrete information is to plant a surveil-
  lance device, set to record but not transmit, and
  then retrieve it later. While doing this is often
  difficult and risky, the recording device never
  reveals its presence by broadcasting and so is
  more difficult to detect.                        ■




COVERT AND ESPIONAGE TECHNOLOGIES
These technologies allow characters to acquire pro-
tected information and to gain access to places that
others try to keep them out of. Many of these devices
are mesh-capable and equipped with radios, see p. 296
for radio ranges.
   Chameleon Cloak: This loose, poncho-like cloak
contains a network of sensors that perceive wave-
lengths from microwave to ultra-violet. A similar net-
work of miniature emitters precisely replicate the in-
formation its sensors receive, making the wearer seem
transparent to those wavelengths. A chameleon cloak
allows a character to effectively become invisible as
long as they are stationary or not moving faster than
a slow walk. When worn by someone moving faster,
the cloak still provides a +30 modifier to Infiltration
Tests to avoid being seen or noticed.
   Chameleon cloaks are not effective against radar,
x-ray, or gamma-ray sensors. They do hide the char-
acter from thermal infrared, however, by absorbing
the character's body heat into its heat sink. The cloak
can only absorb a character's body heat for one hour
before it must emit this heat. Heat emission also re-
quires one hour, during which time the character is
easily visible in the thermal infrared spectrum. [Low]
   Covert Operations Tool (COT): This handheld
device is the ultimate in infiltration technology. It con-
tains both smart matter micromanipulators, cutting
%%% 318.txt %%%
tools, and an advanced nanotechnology generator
capable of producing nanobots that can bore or cut
through almost any material and disable or open
almost any electronic lock.
   Cutting out a lock or boring a 1-millimeter hole in
a wall with a COT requires ((Durability + Armor) ÷
10) seconds. Cutting out a 1-meter diameter hole in
a wall requires ((Durability + Armor) ÷ 10) minutes.
These same nanobots can later be used to repair this
damage so that it is invisible to any but the most care-
ful and detailed examination.
   A COT can easily open any old-fashioned mechani-
cal lock simply by analyzing it and shaping an ap-
propriate key, though this takes a full Action Turn.
It can also open electronic locks by infiltrating them
with nanobots that influence the lock's electronics,
no matter what authentication system the lock uses.
Opening electronic locks takes a full Action Turn, but
success is practically guaranteed. Opening an elec-
tronic lock in this manner will, however, trigger an
alarm and/or be logged as an event. For more details,
see Electronic Locks, p. 291. [High]
   Cuffband: This smart plastic loop restricts around
a prisoner's limbs when activated. If the prisoner
struggles, it will tighten more. Cuffbands will inform
the user if they are cut or loosened and are electron-
ically-controlled, so the user can release the prisoner
remotely. Some cuffband variants including a shock
system (treat as a shock baton, p. 334) to zap and
restrain unruly prisoners. [Low]
   Dazzler: The dazzler is a tiny laser system set on
a rotating ball. When activated, it consistently spins
and emits laser pulses in all directions. These laser
pulses are not dangerous, but they detect the lenses
of camera systems (including specs, viewers, and bot/
synthmorph sensors) and repeatedly zap them with
laser pulses of varying strength to overload and dazzle
them. For as long as a dazzler is active, any camera
system (visual, infrared, and ultraviolet) within line
of sight and within 200 meters is blinded. [Moderate]
   Disabler: This handy device emits an overloading
surge that completely incapacitates and disables a
synthetic morph or pod (anything with a cyberbrain)
when it is plugged into an access jack and activated.
The affected cyberbrain will be unable to function until
the signal is deactivated, effectively shutting down the
ego (or AI). In order to plug a disabler into an unwill-
ing target, the target must first be grappled or a called
shot must be successfully made in melee combat. This
device does not work on larger synthetic morphs (like
vehicles) or on cyberbrainless robots.[High]
   Fiber Eye: This is a flexible and electronically-con-
trollable length of fiberoptic cable and viewer, which
can be worked through cracks, under doors, and
around corners to peep unobtrusively. [Low]
   Invisibility Cloak: This cloak is made of metama-
terials with a negative refractive index, so that light
actually bends around it, making it and anything it
covers invisible. This invisibility works from the
microwave to ultraviolet spectrums, but not against
radar or x-rays. The drawback is that anything con-
cealed within the cloak can't see out. This is easily
overcome by using external sensor feeds (if available)
and entoptics to navigate. Alternately, a small piece of
anti-cloak, which cancels the cloak's invisibility prop-
erties when touched together, can be used to create a
small window to peep out of, though this increases
the chance of being spotted. Noticing such a window
requires a Perception Test with a –30 modifier. [High]
   Microbug: This device is a tiny camera and micro-
phone 1 millimeter across. It has the visual capabili-
ties of a set of specs (p. 325). It can hear everything
within 20 meters and see everything within the same
range that is in its line of sight. A microbug can record
up to 100 hours of information. Microbugs can be
set to broadcast continuously, at set intervals, or only
when they receive a special signal. If desired, they
can also be set to only record if there is movement
or voices in the room they are in. Microbugs have
adhesive backs and can stick to almost any surface.
Microbugs can also establish their location via mesh
positioning or GPS, and so double as tracking devices.
To avoid being detected by their radio transmissions,
some microbugs are attached to miniature quantum
farcasters (p. 314). These microbugs are much larger
(1 centimeter) and easy to see, but their transmissions
cannot be detected or blocked. [Trivial, Low for quan-
tum farcaster bugs]
   Prisoner Mask: This hood tightens around the
head of a prisoner, blocks all vision frequencies, and
engages in low-level jamming in order to prevent any
wireless communication via mesh inserts. [Medium]
   Psi Jammer: This device jams frequencies used
by brainwaves within a 20-meter radius. This has
no effect on brain functions, but it does prevent
any ranged used of psi sleights within this area of
effect. [Moderate]
   Quantum Computer: These advanced devices
make use of quantum computation, allowing them
to handle extremely large numbers with ease. This
makes them especially useful for codebreaking, as
noted on p. 254. [Expensive]
   Smart Dust: This device is a walnut-sized special-
ized nanobot generator that creates tiny sensor nano-
bots, each one of which is a tiny sphere the diameter
of a human hair. A packet of smart dust nanobots is
sufficient to perform detailed surveillance on a large
room like an auditorium has a volume of 1 cubic
centimeter and contains 3 million nanobots. Each
nanobot contains tiny cameras, microphones, a tiny
computer, a radio, and chemical sensors, as well as
short legs that allow them to walk and climb at a rate
of 5 cm per second.
   When a character dumps a packet of smart dust in
a room, it will cover every surface in the room within
20 minutes, including all furniture and the insides
of every drawer and other space that is not airtight.
At this point, the smart dust has recorded all data
about the room that can be obtained by exceedingly
detailed observation, including the DNA of everyone
%%% 319.txt %%%
who has visited the room in the last week or two. The
smart dust can then either broadcast a brief, highly
compressed signal, or it can send all of its informa-
tion to a few hundred nanobots that then walk to a
pre-arranged destination for pickup and downloading
by their user. The user need only find a single nano-
bot with a nanodetector to acquire the information
obtained by the smart dust. If ordered to do so, the
remaining nanobots can either power down and await
further orders or self-destruct in a fashion that turns
them into a tiny amount of dust made mostly of metal
and silicon. [Moderate]
   Traction Pads: This set of specialized fingerless
gloves, shoes, and kneepads is designed to emulate the
pads on geckos' feet. Characters can support them-
selves on a wall or ceiling by placing any two of these
pads against any surface not made from a material
specially designed to resist such devices. Characters
can climb any surface and move easily across walls
and ceilings that can support their weight (+30 to
Climbing Tests). In addition to climbing, these devices
are also very popular in zero-g environments. Wearing
this item does not impair the user's agility or manual
dexterity. [Low]
  White Noise Machine: This small and wearable
device generates masking sounds that protect a con-
versation from being audibly recorded or overheard
by anyone not in the immediate vicinity. [Trivial]
  X-Ray Emitter: This device is designed to be used
with either the enhanced vision augmentation (p.
301) or specs (p. 325). It emits a focused beam of
low-powered x-rays that allows the user of either
device to both see and see through most objects using
backscatter x-ray radiation (p. 303). This allows the
character to literally see through walls and into con-
tainers, including ones made of metal. [Low]



DRUGS, CHEMICALS, AND TOXINS
In Eclipse Phase, the transhuman desire to enhance
the body and mind—especially with chemicals—
merges right into humanity's popular pastime of
recreational substance abuse. Drugs of all kinds,
whether they be chemical, nano-based, or electronic,
are not only popular but widespread. While advances
in biotechnology have eliminated many of the side
effects that once plagued drug users, transhuman
bodies remain complicated environments, and so side
effects (especially with long-term use) are still a factor.
Additionally, addiction is always a consideration for
anyone who gets comfortable with popping the same
pills too often, though there are also drugs for addic-
tion of course
   Drug descriptions include benefits, side effects, no-
ticeable signs that a person is using the drug, addictive-
ness, and effects from long-term use). Descriptions also
include the drug's Duration and its Addiction Modifier
(see Addiction and Substance Abuse).
SUBSTANCE RULES
These rules explain how to handle drugs and toxins.

CLASSIFICATION OF SUBSTANCES
Substances fall into four categories:
   Chemicals: These are pharmacologically-active
small chemical compounds (toxins, pharmaceuticals,
chemical drugs) that have been produced by chemical
synthesis, nanotech fabrication, or enzymatic biosyn-
thesis in (transgenic) organisms. They include natural-
ly-occurring drugs from known species of (exo-)flora
and fauna, endotoxins produced by biological organ-
isms, enhancements of endogenic substances (designer
drugs), and de novo developments designed for a
specific medical or recreational application. Chemical
drugs affect only biological morphs and pods.
   Biologicals: These include peptides, hormones, and
biologically-based substances like biotoxins, bacteria,
and viral organisms—drugs devised or based on
naturally-occurring endogenic biological substances.
This category also includes infectious biological or-
ganisms that can produce drug-like effects, like virii
and bacteria. Biologicals affect biomorphs and pods
but not synthetic morphs or infomorphs.
   Nanodrugs: These are temporary nanobot colonies
programmed to create a certain effect. While nano-
bots are generally able to target or infect all morph
types except infomorphs, exactly which morphs are
affected usually depends on the pre-programmed
effect (i.e., whether it targets a biological or mechani-
cal mechanism).
   Electronic: Electronic drugs include software and
technology that affect the brain directly, such as ma-
nipulative XP programs or retro-tech like transcranial
magnetic stimulation or cranial electrotherapy. It also
includes narcoalgorithms—programs that reproduce
drug-like effects for AIs, infomorphs, and egos resid-
ing in cyberbrains.

APPLICATION METHODS
There are number of vectors by which a substance
may be applied to a morph.
   Dermal (D): This drug or toxin is absorbed via
the skin (or exterior hull with some nanotoxins) as
either a gas, liquid, or solid (e.g., paste). Slap patches
and slap bands are commonly used, loaded with the
chemical DMSO, which transfers the drug through
the skin.
   Inhalation (INH): This is a gas that is breathed into
the lungs or snorted nasally. Used for inhalers, aero-
sols, powders, and gas grenades/seekers.
   Injected (INJ): This liquid is applied via either
an intramuscular or intravenous injection. Used for
needles and piercing weapons.
   Oral (O): This is a liquid or solid that is absorbed
through the stomach or oral cavity (eating or drink-
ing). Used with pills and liquids.
%%% 320.txt %%%
DRUG EFFECTS
If a character is exposed to a drug via its method of
application—for example, they pop a pill, slap on
a dermal patch, are soaked with a splash grenade,
breathe in gas, or get stabbed with a coated weapon—
then they are subject to the drug's effects. The onset
time determines how long these effects take to kick in,
and the duration determines how long they last.
   While there is no resistance test to ignore a drug or
toxin's effects once exposed, in some cases (especially
toxins) a test might be called for to determine the
severity of the effects.
   Unless otherwise noted or specifically overridden,
medichines (p. 308) will protect a character from
drug/toxin effects (but not nanodrugs/nanotoxins).
Enhancements like toxin filters (p. 305) may also
impede a drug's effect or provide complete resistance.
If an antidote is taken in advance or before the effects
kick in, the drug will not work.

ADDICTION AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
Some drugs are addictive, either physically (affect-
ing the morph) or mentally (affecting the ego)—and
sometimes both. Every time a character uses the drug
(or after an appropriate amount of use, as determined
by the gamemaster), they must make a WIL x 3 Test to
avoid addiction. Each drug has an Addiction Modifier
that will modify this test.
   Failure indicates that the character has become
addicted—they immediately acquire the Addiction
negative trait (p. 148). Addiction is measured in three
levels: Minor, Moderate, and Major. The severity de-
termines how often an addicted character needs the
drug and what the negative effects of not using the
drug are.
   An addicted character must continue to make WIL
x 3 Tests as they use the drug, as determined by the
gamemaster. Failure indicates the character's addic-
tion severity increases.
   The negative effects from not using a drug end
whenever the character does the drug again. Durabil-
ity and Lucidity penalties are not damage, but tempo-
rary decreases to the character's maximum values; the
character immediately regains the lost Durability or
Lucidity when they do the drug again.
   Addiction is of indefinite duration. To clean up,
the character must stay off the drug for 1 week for
each level of addiction. Resisting this craving is dif-
ficult, and should at least require another WIL x 3
Test, modified by the drug's Addiction modifier. Play-
ers and gamemasters are encouraged to roleplay an
attempt to kick a habit. Each week the character is
off the drug, the addiction drops by one level. When
it reaches 0, the character is clean ... though there is
always danger of a relapse.
   Physical addictions do not carry over to a new
morph if the character resleeves, but mental ad-
dictions do. If the character uploads and resleeves,
the mental addictions persist, and the morph the
character leaves behind remains physically addicted.
This means that poor or unlucky characters may
occasionally find themselves resleeved into a morph
that has a physical addiction. In this case, the charac-
ter is subject to the physical addictiveness of the drug
but not the mental addiction, although if they break
down and indulge in the drug, they may themself
become physically addicted.
  Characters who resleeve as infomorphs can remain
mentally addicted to a substance despite no longer
having a body. The market is always happy to provide,
though; a wide variety of narcoalgorithms mirroring
the effects of most of the drugs described below are
available for infomorphs and AIs. For the infomorph-
ported narcoalgorithm version of any physically-
only addictive drug described below, consider the
Addictiveness to be effectively physical. The character
remains addicted as long as they are an infomorph,
but they do not remain addicted if they sleeve into a
physical morph.

DRUGS
The drugs described here are usually (but not always
beneficial), and are typically taken intentionally. Drugs
and chemicals used offensively are described under
Chemicals and Toxins, both on p. 323.
  Note that the drugs here are just a representative
sampling. There are thousands if not millions of
drugs in circulation in Eclipse Phase—gamemasters
are encouraged to introduce their own, using these
as guidelines.

COGNITIVE DRUGS
 Nootropics and similar drugs are intended to boost
 the user's mental faculties.
    Drive: This nootropic speeds up left-right brain
 hemisphere communication, stimulates idea produc-
 tion, and improves concentration, with no usual side
 effects. Users receive a +5 bonus to COG while the
 drug lasts. [Low]
    Klar: Klar boosts alertness and enhances clarity and
 perception. Users report a feeling of being “elevated”
 to a higher level. They receive +5 INT while the drug
 lasts. [Low]
    Neem: Neem is a mnemonic drug that works by
“tagging” experiences and mental input with a set of
 unique sensations that contribute to the formation
 of state-based memories. Neem gummy chews come
 in a variety of fruit flavors shaped like extinct old
 Earth animals. Neem gives characters a +20 bonus
 on COG Tests to recall information they learned
 while on Neem (see Memorizing and Remembering,
 p. 176). The drawback to Neem is that memories they
 accumulate while under the drug's influence have no
 emotional association. For example, a character who
 witnessed something horrible happening to a friend
 or who had a fight with a romantic partner while on
 Neem would feel no emotional connection whatsoever
 to what happened. [Moderate]
%%% 321.txt %%%
COMBAT DRUGS
Combat drugs are an easy way of evening the odds
in a fight.
   BringIt: In some respects more a social than a
combat drug, BringIt stimulates massive bursts of ag-
gression pheromones designed to make the user the
center of attention in a fight. In combat, opponents
within 3 meters of the character not already in un-
armed or melee combat with another character must
pass a WIL x 3 Test or attack the character using Br-
ingIt. The nature of airborne pheromones is imprecise,
however, so if the character using BringIt is within
1 meter of another character hostile to the character
affected, the affected character may opt to attack the
proximate character instead of the BringIt user. Char-
acters using this drug suffer a –20 modifier on social
skill tests. [Low]
   Grin: Grin is an effective opiate and pain sup-
pressant. Users may ignore the –10 modifiers from
2 wounds (not cumulative with similar effects), and
in fact may not even be aware they are injured. Grin
users suffer from tunnel vision, however, and so suffer
a –10 modifier on Perception Tests. [Low]
   Kick: Kick is a strong stimulant that increases the
user's response time and puts them on edge. The char-
acter gains +10 REF and +1 Speed for the duration of
the drug. Characters under the influence of Kick are
twitchy, however, reacting in a jumpy, cat-like fashion
to sudden or unexpected stimuli. At the gamemaster's
discretion, they must make a WIL x 2 Test or react
without thinking towards unexpected noises or other
surprises. Long-term users suffer –5 COO. [Moderate]
   MRDR: MRDR is a straightforward and brutal
combat drug. It increases pain tolerance, speed, and
strength. The character receives +10 SOM, +1 Speed,
+10 Durability, and may ignore the –10 modifier of
one wound. Any damage incurred while under the
effects of the drug is taken from the bonus Durabil-
ity first. MRDR users are easily identifiable by the
broken blood vessels in their eyes, tense posture, and
visible tension in the muscles of the face, arms, and
legs. Long-term users suffer –5 SOM. [Low]
   Phlo: Phlo increases alertness and coordination,
making the user more graceful and nimble in a fray.
The character gains +5 COO and +10 on Perception
Tests for the duration of the drug. Everything feels
possible to a character on Phlo, and so they are vul-
nerable to being goaded into actions that might be
foolish or dangerous (apply a –10 modifier to appro-
priate Social Skill Tests). [Moderate]

HEALTH DRUGS
Pharma-foods that boost the consumer's health and
physical state are common.
  Bananas Furiosas: This drug reverses some of the
effects of de-ionizing radiation on the cells of the
body. Although a pill form is available, it most com-
monly comes in large bunches of bright orange-red
bananas. Bananas reduce the severity of a radiation
dosage (gamemaster determines effect). [Low]
%%% 322.txt %%%
  Comfurt: This tasty yogurt treat blocks stress hor-                 transport and delivery. However, for the wealthy and
mones, stabilizes mood, and relieves anxiety, allowing                on planets, buds in leaf form are not uncommon. Hash
them to ignore the effect of 1 trauma and temporarily                 allows the character to ignore the effects of 1 trauma,
boosting Lucidity by +5. Any stress suffered while the                but inflicts a –10 penalty on all memory-related tests
drug is in effect is taken from the bonus Lucidity first.             and Knowledge Skill Tests. Hash users exhibit blood-
Comfurt also provides a +10 bonus when resisting                      shot eyes, lethargic behaviors, and the munchies. [Low]
attempts to manipulate the user's emotions. Excessive
use of Comfurt can lead to chronic itchiness caused by                SOCIAL DRUGS
histamine release. [Low]                                              These social lubricants affect the user's interactions
                                                                      with others.
RECREATIONAL DRUGS                                                      Alpha: Alpha is a more subtle version of BringIt,
These drugs compete with petals (p. 321) and black                    popular with hypercorp execs, street thugs, and
market XP for wasting people's time and lives away.                   anyone else who wants to come across as a domineer-
   Buzz: This gene-modified variant of BZ is an odor-                 ing asshole. The pharm designer who invented it had
less, invisible, extremely powerful hallucinogen. Users               a retro sensibility (and maybe a sick sense of humor);
or affected characters will undergo extremely realistic               Alpha is typically synthesized as a sparkling white
hallucinations for the duration, and may even “share”                 powder designed to be snorted. Alpha stimulates
hallucinations with other affected characters. Charac-                production of threat pheromones, but less bluntly
ters will suffer a –30 modifier to any tests to remember              than BringIt. Alpha imparts confidence, a feeling of
what occurred while under the influence. [Moderate]                   power, and alertness. Users can function without sleep
   Mono No Aware: Taken from the Japanese term                        for 4 days, after which point they need to catch up
for sadness at the ephemerality of worldly things, this               with at least 4 hours of sleep (remember morphs with
drug, typically ingested as a tea, is a depressant that               basic biomods require less sleep). Dosed characters
induces a meditative state. Mono No Aware gives the                   receive a +20 modifier on Intimidation Tests and +10
character a +10 bonus on Art and Sense Tests. With                    on Persuasion and Networking Tests where attitude is
frequent use, Mono No Aware reacts with pigments                      a factor (gamemaster discretion). These bonuses only
in the skin to create a pallor with a slight bluish tinge,            apply to characters within 2 meters of the Alpha user.
even in darker-skinned morphs. [Low]                                    On the downside, alpha users are impatient, unfo-
   Orbital Hash: Good ol' reefer—but grown in space                   cused assholes. At the gamemaster's discretion, Social
using powerful lighting and post-singularity hydropon-                skill modifiers may be reversed to penalties with
ics. Because space is at a premium in habitats and scum               certain types of people. Additionally, Alpha users
barges, blocks of hashish are the preferred mode of                   suffer –10 on all COG skill tests related to memory


                                                         DRUGS
                            TYPE APPLICATION ONSET TIME DURATION ADDICTION MODIFIER ADDICTION TYPE
     Cognitive Drugs
     Drive                  Chem          O          20 minutes       8 hours            —                  Mental
     Klar                   Chem          O          20 minutes       8 hours            —                  Mental
     Neem                   Chem          O          20 minutes       12 hours           —                  Mental
     Combat Drugs
     BringIt                 Bio      Inh, Inj, O     1 minute       15 minutes         +10                 Physical
     Grin                   Chem      Inh, Inj, O   3 Action Turns    3 hours            –10                Physical
     Kick                   Chem      Inh, Inj, O   3 Action Turns    2 hours            –10                Physical
     MRDR                   Chem          O          20 minutes        1 hour            –10                Physical
     Phlo                   Chem          O          20 minutes        1 hour            –10                Physical
     Health Drugs
     Bananas Furiosas       Chem          O          20 minutes        1 day             —                    —
     Comfurt                 Bio          O          20 minutes       12 hours           –10                Mental
     Recreational Drugs
     Buzz                   Chem        Inh, O         1 hour         36 hours           —                  Mental
     Mono No Aware          Chem          O          20 minutes       8 hours            –10                Mental
     Orbital Hash           Chem         Inh          3 minutes       3 hours            —                  Mental
     Social Drugs
     Alpha                   Bio         Inh          1 minute        2 hours            –10                Mental
     Hither                  Bio          D           1 minute        6 hours            –10                Physical
     Juice                  Chem        O, Inh       20 minutes       8 hours            —                  Mental
%%% 323.txt %%%
 and coherent or logical thinking. Long-term users may
 suffer the COG penalty even when not on the drug;
 on it, they may be worse. [High]
                                                                     OTHER NANODRUGS
                                                                     Nanodrugs have the capability of making fun-
    Hither: Want to ooze sexy like a pleasure morph
                                                                     damental changes to a body's biochemistry and
 on a hot tin roof? For those desiring that slinky je-ne-
                                                                     mental state. The potential effects are too nu-
 sais-quoi, Hither is the tool. Hither is a clear, slippery
                                                                     merous to list, but gamemasters should consider
 gel, sometimes with a faint, musky, floral scent. Hither
                                                                     allowing nanodrugs that temporarily apply cer-
 is applied to parts of the body with large concentra-
                                                                     tain traits, such as Brave, Direction Sense, Math
 tions of sweat glands, where the skin quickly absorbs
                                                                     Wiz, Pain Tolerance, Psi Chameleon, Psi Defense,
 it. Hither is a mild euphoriant, imparting a feeling of
                                                                     Situational Awareness, Tough, Feeble, Frail, Low
 confidence and you-know-you-want-it-ness to the user.
                                                                     Pain Tolerance, Mental Disorder, Mild Allergy,
 It also stimulates abundant production of lust phero-
                                                                     Neural Damage, Psi Vulnerability, Severe Al-
 mones. The character gains a +10 bonus on Persuasion
                                                                     lergy, Timid, VR Conditioning, VR Vertigo, Weak
 Tests against targets who are possible to seduce. At the
                                                                     Immune System, or Zero-G Nausea. Similarly,
 gamemaster's discretion, this extends to Deception,
                                                                     the nanodrug could force the character into a
 Impersonate, and Networking Tests. [Low]
                                                                     particular mental emotional state, such as a bad
    Juice: This potent anti-depressant makes it almost
                                                                     mood, edginess, contentment, or overconfi-
 impossible to have bad feelings or negative thoughts.
                                                                     dence. Gamemasters are encouraged to experi-
 The character is unnaturally happy—often irritatingly
                                                                     ment with different possibilities and effects. ■
 or strangely so. The character receives a +30 bonus
 against fear or attempts to manipulate their emotions
 in a negative direction, but is also likely to act inap-
 propriately, like giggling over the massive amount of                Gravy: Gravy assists characters in acclimating to
 spilled blood or cheerfully changing the subject to               high gravity environments. It comes in a variety of
 inane topics when someone else is freaking out. [Low]             flavors and is often added as a sauce to food. For
                                                                   Gravy to be 100% effective, the character must begin
 NANODRUGS                                                         using it in advance. Reduce penalties for high-gravity
 Nanodrugs are temporary nanobot infestations that                 acclimation by 20. [Low]
 apply a specific effect.                                             Schizo: Schizo is a nanodrug that mirrors the ef-
    Frequency: Frequency (or Freeq) is a nanodrug de-              fects of paranoid schizophrenia. It is popular in
 signed as a tool for scientific visualization. It releases        some hyperelite social circles as a truly daring and
 a small swarm of nanobots into the character's blood-             intriguing experience. A dose of schizo looks like a
 stream that settle in the epidermis, where they act as            disposable antique razor blade. Making an incision
 sensors of electromagnetic radiation. This sensory                in the skin releases a swarm of nanobots that travel
 input is then injected into the character's visual and            to the central nervous system and induce the effects
 tactile sensoria, hitting the user with a sequence of             of the drug. While in effect, the character is severely
 novel stimuli, typically a light show or weird tactile            paranoid and hears voices. How this plays out is at
 sensations. Aside from its recreational uses, Frequency           the discretion of the gamemaster, but should include
 is good at picking up on localized field radiation with           irrational fears, unusual compulsions based on the
 a standard Perception Test. A character can take ad-              instructions of the voice or voices, and a strong pos-
 vantage of this to spot sensors and hidden electronics.           sibility that the character will behave in a violent or
 Similar to now-obsolete 20th-century hallucinogens                destructive fashion. The character may make WIL x 3
 like LSD and psilocybin, however, a Frequency trip                Tests to avoid violent acts against objects or strangers.
 can be disorienting and upsetting (the gamemaster                 Friends and trusted acquaintances are probably less
 should apply any modifiers, mental stress, or even                likely to be targets of violence (+30 modifier to avoid
 trauma as they feel appropriate). Characters typically            hurting people the character cares about or destroy-
 experience a period about 1/3 of the way through                  ing important possessions). Note that the character's
 their trip in which sensory input is extremely intense;           muse is unaffected by Schizo and can make efforts
 during this period, which usually lasts about 2 hours,            to babysit the character. Characters who take Schizo
 they are unable to read. [Moderate]                               suffer 1d10 mental stress. [Low]



                                                     NANODRUGS
NANODRUGS                  TYPE            APPLICATION         DURATION         ADDICTION MODIFIER         ADDICTION TYPE
Frequency                  Nano                Inj, O            8 hours                  –10                   Mental
Gravy                      Nano                Inj, O            special                  —                       —
Petals                     Nano                  O            2 hours–1 day           +10 to –20                Mental
Schizo                     Nano                 Inj               1 day                   —                     Mental
%%% 324.txt %%%
SAMPLE PETALS
A few examples of Petal experiences:

FORGOTTEN HAND
One of the character's hands detaches and makes a
run for it. The character is conscious and able to in-
teract normally with the real world, but they cannot
perceive the “escaped” hand and firmly believe that
it's getting away. The hand will lead the character
a merry chase, but at some point, a new hand ap-
pears on the character's wrist. It may be glittery and
opalescent, demonic and clawed, or bestial. Eventu-
ally, after an hour or two, the character will catch up
to their hand, but to get rid of their new hand and
re-attach the old, they must answer cryptic questions
posed by a gnome-like being.

DARKLY SELVING
This petal is believed to achieve many of its effects
by connecting to the mesh, where an AI observes
and controls some of the event flow, and only
works for multiple trippers. Like Forgotten Hand,
it works by overlaying AR perceptions on the real
world, but because of the effects, it's highly inadvis-
able to take in places where any non-trippers will
be present. Darkly Selving creates an epsilon fork
of each character tripping and sleeves the fork in
an infomorph that looks like a demonic version of
themself, using visual input from the character's
co-trippers. AR overlays cause the characters to per-
ceive themselves as angelic beings, while the real-
seeming demonic infomorphs appear as AR overlays
on their real world perceptions. What happens next
varies, but generally both the characters and their
forks are subjected to a series of strong chemical




  PETALS
 Petals is a term for a type of narrative hallucinogen,
 a nanodrug that hijacks the senses and takes the user
 on a game-like, highly immersive trip. Known by a
 myriad of intriguing names—Forgotten Hand, Darkly
 Selving, Inquisitive Green, to name a few—Petals are
 post-Fall society's heroin—the drug of choice for the
 desperate and fucked. Petals almost always appear as
 nanopharmaceutical flowers, potted or with a nutrient
 pack attached to the stem. Plucking and swallowing
 the petals from the flower triggers the effects imme-
 diately. Flowers have 5-10 petals. Multiple users may
 share the experience if they take the Petals within 1
 minute of the first one being plucked; after this all
 petals remaining on the flower fade to translucent
 white and become inert.
   Petal experiences are like entire scenarios in and of
 themselves. Some take place entirely in the user's mesh
 inserts (the user must cede control of their implants
  d narcoalgorithmic stimuli, ranging from Hither-
 e effects to massive doses of MRDR (or sometimes
oth). The effects directed against the forks are
  nerally much more intense. The objective—hinted
  via environmental clues—is to merge with one's
 rk, which can be accomplished in a variety of ways,
 nging from hunting them down and eating their
  art to solving a puzzle or reaching a goal before
 eir forks can.

 ELPHINIUM SIX
 e last and rarest in a series of petals, Delphinium
x is the Grail of petal users, a supposedly tran-
endental experience that might not even exist.
elphinium One is scarce, Two and Three are quite
 re, Four is an amazing find, and Five and Six
 e only rumors. Hints of what Six might hold are
  sed largely on extrapolation from the little that
 known about the lower-numbered petals. The
 llowing facts are generally accepted. It is a group
 perience, but not all members of the tripping
 oup are rewarded equally. It is intensely surreal,
 t in a purposeful way, as are all of the Delphinium
 ries. It concludes the loosely-built narrative of a
 ugged-out version of a fairy tale princess and her
uest for enlightenment begun in Delphinium One,
 plete with strange omens and mythological crea-
 res. Rumors of what the ending might hold are
ore fanciful, and range from the trippers being
 sleeved in god-like infomorphs to them being
apped forever in an ego prison. Delphinium Six is
 mpletely virtual, leaving the characters comatose
 r the duration, and probably lasts a long time,
  rhaps 40 hours.                                  ■




   voluntarily; if they do not, the drug has no effect other
   than producing very low-intensity LSD-like visual hal-
   lucinations), taking control of the character's entoptic
   displays, linking to secretive mesh servers and other
   trippers, and invading the character's sensorium with
   AR “hallucinations.” Others put the character into a
   near-comatose state during which they go on a head
   trip. Normally there is some kind of well-developed
   theme or plot to a Petal experience, although in some
   cases they just experience a stream of images.
      Though most societies seek to suppress Petals, new
   ones appear constantly, fueled by a persistent sub-
   culture of crafters and users. Petalcrafters view their
   work as an art form (or at least as really good enter-
   tainment), and the better Petals are lovingly crafted,
   hauntingly beautiful experiences—even if they're also
   terrifying. The subculture of Petal use ranges from
   casual users who occasionally do an easy, short-du-
   ration flower to hardcore addicts who spend much of
%%% 325.txt %%%
their time not on Petals trying to hunt down the most
intense and esoteric varieties. From this subculture
comes a lot of information on what various Petals
look like and their effects. Because Petals combine
custom nanobots with tailored chemical payloads and
sometimes connections to mesh servers, duplicating
them using fabricators is impossible, leading to an
active market of crafters, dealers, and traders.
   Petals sometimes contain easter eggs and rewards,
called “sweets” by petal users. Getting the sweets usu-
ally requires fulfilling certain conditions within the
trip, such as correctly answering questions or fulfilling
goals. Typical sweets include skillsofts, new clothing
or product designs, and custom infomorph sleeves.
   On the negative side, some Petal trips go bad, in-
flicting 1d10 mental stress or more on the user. Per-
haps worse, some Petals are loaded with malware that
takes over the user's mesh inserts and worse—some
sentinels even whisper of Petals carrying strains of the
Exsurgent virus. [Trivial to High]

NARCOALGORITHMS
Narcoalgorithms are software programs that simulate
the effects of drugs on biological bodies. Almost all
bio, chemical, and nano drugs can be replicated as
narcoalgorithms, with corresponding effect (game-
master discretion). Narcoalgorithms may be run by
infomorphs, egos encased in cyberbrains (pods and
synthmorphs), simulmorphs, and even AIs.
   DDR: Originally crafted by prankster hackers
and distributed as a virus, DDR (for “Dance Dance
Robot”) triggers impulses in the target's motor con-
trol circuits. Primary targeting robot AIs, the effect is
that targets “dance” in jerky, automated movements.
Pleasure receptors are also activated so that dancing—
and movement of any kind—feels good. Different
software variants invoke different motions and styles.
The target suffers a –20 modifier on other actions
while dancing, but the dancing may be overridden
with a WIL x 3 Test. [Low]
   Linkstate: This software actually connects the user
to a peer-to-peer network, where it randomly con-
nects to other linkstate users and samples a bit of their
XP feed and randomly accessed memories—typically
just enough to provide context, but not enough to
acquire private personal details. These inputs are
spliced together, their emotional inputs amplified, and
then the entire package is spiked with some hormonal
circuit triggers and artificial synaesthesia. The effect
is a mind-blowing mixed sampling of people's lives,
mashed together in a sensory soup, that hits the mind
with a euphoric rush. Linkstate users are catatonic
while under the effects (typical sessions run 3-4 hours),
but afterwards they often report that they have flash-
backs of events in other people's lives. [Low]

CHEMICALS
Atropine: Though poisonous in large doses, atropine
is an effective antidote against nerve agents like BTX2
and Nervex. Easily synthesized in a maker, atropine
will avert the effect whether taken soon before or after
dosage by a nerve agent. [Trivial]
   DMSO: This chemical acts as a carrier, allow-
ing other chemicals to be absorbed through the
skin. It allows any chemical agent to be applied
dermally. [Trivial]
   Liquid Thermite: Similar to scrapper's gel, liquid
thermite comes in a gel form that is easily applied
under all environmental conditions (by the nature
of its chemical reaction, thermite is oxygenated and
will burn underwater or in space). It is ignited with
an electric charge, burning at temperatures exceeding
2,500 degrees Celsius and melting through whatever
it is touching. Liquid thermite inflicts 3d10 + 5 DV per
Action turn to whatever it is touching. Armor will also
be burnt through, offering no protection once the full
Armor rating has been reached. [Moderate]
   NotWater: NotWater is an effective liquid fire re-
tardant that does not get objects wet, no matter how
absorbent they are—it simply beads up and slides
right off. [Trivial]
    Scrapper's Gel: This goo turns into a potent acid
when given an electrical charge. It comes in a gel-like
state and may be smeared like jelly, and may even be
used in space. In acid form, scrapper's gel does 1d10
+ 5 DV per Action Turn to anything it touches, unless
the material has been treated against acid. Armor will
protect against this acid at first, but the acid will eat
through the armor, so that it will no longer protect
after its full armor value has been reached. [Low]
    Slip: This liquid is almost entirely frictionless. When
spread around an area (commonly used in splash
grenades), anyone attempting to walk or run on the
affected surface must make a COO Test or fall down.
Likewise, any coated surface becomes extremely
hard to grip onto, requiring a SOM Test to hang on.
Anyone attempting to grapple a slip-soaked character
suffers a –30 modifier. [Low]
   Tracker Dye: This liquid is colorless at normal light
but becomes recognizable under pre-specified different
wavelengths (such as infrared or ultraviolet). [Trivial]

TOXINS
Chemical warfare involves using the toxic properties
of biological and chemical substances to kill, injure,
or incapacitate an enemy. Note that an antidote can
be constructed for most toxins if a sample is acquired
and an appropriate Medicine or Academics Test is
made. This is considered a Task Action with a time-
frame of 1 hour. These toxins only affect biomorphs;
synthmorphs are immune.
   BTX : BTX-squared (also called Frog Bite) is a
genetically-enhanced variant of the extremely potent
cardiotoxic and neurotoxic batrachotoxin. It leads to
fast paralysis and cardiac arrest that usually kills the
target within a few Action Turns. Affected characters
suffer 2d10 + 10 damage a turn for 3 Action Turns;
medichines reduce this damage by half. They must
also make a SOM x 2 Test (+30 with medichines) or
be paralyzed for 1 hour. [High]
%%% 326.txt %%%
   CR Gas: This potent incapacitating agent causes
eye twitching and temporary blindness, severe cough-
ing and breathing difficulty, skin irritation, and panic.
Affected characters suffer 1d10 ÷ 2 damage, a –30
modifier to sight-based Perception Tests, and a –20
modifier to all other actions for 20 minutes (5 min-
utes if the character has medichines). [Low]
   Flight: This drug is derived from human pheromones
released due to fear, and is intended to instill alarm or
even terror in the character. Affected characters must
make a WIL x 3 Test (+30 with medichines) or suffer
a panic attack, inflicting 1d10 stress. Dosed characters
also suffer a –30 modifier for resisting intimidation or
fear-based emotional manipulations. Flight affects last
for 1 hour (5 minutes with medichines). [Low]
   Nervex: Derived from deadly nerve agents like cy-
closarin, VX, and novichok, this genetically-modified
toxin is deployed as a colorless, odorless gas that
turns safely inert 10 minutes after deployment. It
causes involuntary contraction of the muscles, sei-
zures, and death by respiratory failure. One minute
after exposure, the character must make a SOM Test
or be incapacitated by seizures, paralysis, or nausea
and vomiting; unaffected characters still suffer a –20
modifier to all actions. After 10 minutes, the character
will die unless an antidote (such as atropine, p. 323) is
applied. Characters with medichines suffer the initial
effects, but recover after 5 minutes. [High]
   Oxytocin-A: A genetically-improved variant of oxy-
tocin, this drug induces trust in the recipient. Drugged
characters suffer a –30 modifier on all WIL and Kine-
sics Tests where trust is a factor. Medichines provide
immunity. [Low]
  Twitch: Twitch is a convulsive agent, a nonlethal
nerve gas. Affected characters must succeed in a SOM
Test (+30 with medichines) or become incapacitated
with severe muscle tremors. Unaffected characters still
suffer a –20 on all actions. The effects of Twitch last for
10 minutes, 5 if the character has medichines. [Low]

NANOTOXINS
Disruption: This nanotoxin attacks the myelin sheath
on nerves, disrupting nerve impulses and inflicting
symptoms of multiple sclerosis. Every hour the morph
suffers a –5 modifier to COO, REF, and COG. If any
aptitudes are reduced to zero,the morph is effectively
paralyzed and catatonic. [Moderate]
   Necrosis: Necrosis nanobots attack the walls of cells
inside the body, killing tissue. This nanotoxin inflicts
1d10 ÷ 2 damage per Action Turn for one minute, after
which the nanobots disable and flush from the body.
Necrosis only affects biomorphs. [Moderate]
   Neuropath: These nanobots are designed to stimu-
late the pain receptors of a morph on a systemic level
to cause agony and impairment. While most neuro-
paths target biological receptors, variants are avail-
able that induce comparable (phantom) pain stimula-
tions in the cyberbrains of synthmorphs to create an
equivalent effect. The affected character must succeed
in a WIL x 3 Test or become incapacitated. Even if
they succeed, they suffer –30 from the inflicted agony.
Any form of pain resistance that allows a character
to ignore wound modifiers will negate the neuropath
pain modifier by an appropriate amount. [Moderate]
   Nutcracker: Nutcrackers are nanobots designed to
locate, migrate, and decompose the synthdiamond
case of a cortical stack within a morph by attacking
its crystal lattice. This process takes approximately
6 hours, after which the cortical stack is destroyed.
These nanobots also attack the cortical stack's connec-
tions to the (cyber)brain and brain-mapping nanobots.
After 1 hour, the victim will be aware that their corti-
cal stack is threatened. After 3 hours, all connections
will be severed and the cortical stack will no longer be
able to back up the character. [High]

PATHOGENS
A pathogen is an infectious biological agent that
causes disease or illness to its host. While natural
pathogens rarely strive to kill their hosts, germ war-
fare programs revived during the Fall—or instigated
by the TITANs—sought to modify and use pathogens
as a weapon of war. The ideal characteristics of lethal
biological agents are high infectivity, high potency,
availability of vaccines, and delivery as an aerosol.
Most biomorphs are immune to standard pathogens
thanks to their basic bio-mods, and medichines will
protect against most others. However, even these
defenses may not protect against diseases left by
the TITANs or a new terrorist cell's biowar bug. It
is largely recommended that pathogens be handled
as a plot device, rather than an active threat to the
characters. Pathogens have no effect on synthmorphs.
   Degen: Characters exposed to this degenerative
neurological disease must make a DUR x 2 Test or
become infected. Medichines will defeat the disease,
but others will not show signs of infection for 1 week,
when the symptoms of a rapidly progressing dementia
will become clear: memory loss, personality changes,
and hallucinations. If untreated, Degen will progress
for another week with more serious symptoms, in-
cluding speech impediments, jerky movements, loss
of balance and coordination, and even seizures. This
is reflected by a 5 point loss in all aptitudes per day
(after the first week). When any aptitude reaches 0,
the character dies. Degen is notorious for its effect
in corrupting cortical stack backups before infection
symptoms manifest. [Expensive]
   Trigger: Trigger is a designer virus that selectively
targets and infects mast cells to trigger a hyper-allergic
reaction. The resulting anaphylactic shock due to sys-
temic vasodilatation (associated with a sudden drop
in blood pressure) and bronchial swelling (resulting in
constriction and difficulty breathing) usually leads to
death in a matter of minutes after onset, if not treated.
Infected characters must succeed in a DUR Test (using
their current Durability score minus damage) or die
quickly. Even medichines have difficulty reacting in
time against this virus; characters with medichines
must make a DUR x 2 Test to survive. [Expensive]
%%% 327.txt %%%
PSI DRUGS                                                                                     TOXINS
Research into the Watts-MacLeod strain has resulted in
several exceptional breakthroughs involving the creation                            TYPE APPLICATION ONSET TIME
of psi-impacting drugs. Each of these drugs is in the ex-      Chemical Toxins
perimental stage, but they are already finding some use        BTX2                 Chem       D, Inj, O      1 Action Turn    3
among Firewall and similar secretive groupings.                CR Gas               Chem        D, Inh        1 Action Turn
   Inhibitor: Inhibitor is a cocktail of neurochemicals
                                                               Flight                Bio          Inh         3 Action Turns
that block some brain receptor and transmitter func-
                                                               Nervex               Chem     D, Inh, Inj, O     1 minute
tions in an attempt to reduce psi-waves and block or
impair sleights. This drug is commonly used to restrain        Oxytocin-A            Bio        Inh, Inj        3 minutes
async prisoners from using their abilities. A drugged          Twitch               Chem     D, Inh, Inj, O 3 Action Turns
character must make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they         Nanotoxins
lose all psi abilities for the drug's duration. If they suc-   Degeneration         Nano        Inj, O         Immediate
ceed, they suffer a –30 impairment on Psi skills and           Necrosis             Nano        Inj, O        3 Action Turns
all strain is doubled. Inhibitor has an unfortunate side       Neuropath            Nano       D, Inj, O      3 Action Turns
effect of doping the character down, however; apply
                                                               Nutcracker           Nano        Inj, O         Immediate
a –10 modifier to their COG. Inhibitor-influenced
                                                               Psi Drugs
characters tend to have a glazed, dopey expression and
have difficulty getting excited or emotional. [High]           Inhibitor            Chem        Inj, O        3 Action Turns
   Psi-Opener: Psi-opener drugs are variants of the            Psi-Opener            Bio        Inj, O         20 minutes
Watts-MacLeod strain with a temporary effect and               Psike-Out            Chem        Inj, O          1 minute
which do not permanently alter the user's brain. Psi-
opener temporarily imbues the user with the ability
to use one particular sleight, regardless of whether or           Holographic Projectors: These devices are capable
not they have the Psi trait. Each type of Psi-opener is        of projecting high-definition, ultra-realistic three-
customized for a particular sleight. While primarily           dimensional images and movies. From a distance
intended for non-asyncs, non-asyncs may not possess            (20+ meters), such holograms can be difficult to
Psi skills, so they must default to WIL. For this reason,      distinguish as fake, but up close they are easier to
Psi-Opener is often doubled up with Psike-out.                 see for what they are (+20 Perception Test modifier).
   Using Psi-opener is a mind-wrenching experience.            Holograms do not appear wavelengths other than
Users are occasionally subject to hallucinations               visual light, and so are easily identified by anyone
(gamemaster discretion). When the drug wears off, it           with enhanced vision. [Low]
inflicts 1d10 points of mental stress, +2 if the drug            Micrograv Shoes: These shoes are equipped with
imbues a psi-gamma sleight. [Expensive]                        velcro and/or a magnetic system, allowing the wearer
   Psike-Out: Psike-out bolsters an async's psi abilities.     to walk normally on appropriate surfaces in micro-
Apply a +20 modifier to the async's Psi skill tests for the    grav and zero-G environments, rather than floating or
drug's duration. However, also apply +2 to all strain          bouncing. [Trivial]
DVs for the drug's duration. Psike-out is mentally ad-            Portable Sensor: This is a small portable (possibly
dictive, with an Addiction Modifier of –10. [Expensive]        even wearable) sensor system. The type of sensor must
                                                               be chosen (for example: infrared, lidar, radar, x-ray).
                                                               Combined sensor systems are also available, at a cu-
EVERYDAY TECHNOLOGY                                            mulative cost. See Radio and Sensor Ranges, p. 299.
                                                               and Using Enhanced Senses, p. 302. [Moderate]
The following devices are all exceptionally common
and can be acquired in almost any habitat. Almost                 Smart Clothing: Smart clothing can change its
everyone in Eclipse Phase either owns these devices or         color, texture, and even its cut, taking only a minute
knows several people who do.                                   or two to transform from a solid color jumpsuit to a
   Ecto: Ectos are the external version of basic mesh          plaid party dress or a replica of a pinstriped, late 20th
inserts (p. 300), minus the medical sensors. These col-        century business suit. More advanced (and expensive)
orful devices serve as a wearable mesh terminal, PDA,          models can also attempt to camouflage their wearers,
locator, and camera-phone. The devices are flexible            providing a +20 bonus to Infiltration Tests to avoid
(often worn as bracelets), dirt-resistant, self-cleaning,      being seen or noticed, as long as the wearer is station-
and may be stretched out to increase screen size. They         ary or not moving faster than a slow walk. When worn
may project holographic displays and are typically             by someone moving faster, the clothing still provides a
equipped with wireless-enabled glasses or contact              +10 modifier. Smart clothing also keeps the character
lenses and decorative earpieces or earrings so that the        warm or cool, allowing the character to exist comfort-
user may access augmented reality. Given the ubiquity          ably in environments from –40 to 70 C. [Low]
of mesh inserts, ectos are growing less common, but               Smart Vac Clothing: Just like regular smart cloth-
they are still used by bioconservatives, others without        ing, this outfit can also transform into a light vacsuit
implants, and those who prefer to access the mesh via          (p. 333). It also functions as armor with a rating of
an external device for security concerns. [Low]                2/4. [Moderate]
%%% 328.txt %%%
   Specs: Specs are vision-enhancing glasses. They
deliver sensory data directly into the wearer's visual
cortex by connecting with their basic mesh inserts
(p. 300), though visual displays are available for bio-
conservatives and other characters without implants.
Specs extend the range of the wearer's vision from
terahertz waves to gamma rays (p. 302). Specs in-
clude a t-ray emitter (p. 306), however, using x-rays,
or gamma rays for visual purposes requires a sepa-
rate emitter, since neither of these sorts of radiation
are common inside habitats, or in any safe environ-
ments. Specs have a variable focus equivalent to 5
power magnifiers and provide the wearer with a +10
bonus to all Perception Tests involving vision. [Low]
   Tools: Tools come in kits (portable), shops (can fit
into a large vehicle), and facilities (large, non-mobile).
Each set of tools applies to a particular skill, such
as Hardware: Electronics or Hardware: Groundraft.
[Low (Kit), High (Shop), Expensive (Facility)]
   Utilitool: This hand tool includes a specialized
small nanobot generator. In its basic form, a utilitool
is the size and shape of a large fountain pen. It can
transform into almost any tool, however, from a
wrench, knife, or powered screwdriver to a rotary
grinder or pair of pliers. Some inexpensive utilitools
are optimized for specialized tasks, like cooking
or wilderness survival, but more expensive models
become almost any imaginable hand tool. Utilitools
are normally mentally controlled using the character's
basic mesh inserts. Characters without such implants
can control the tool via voice commands and touch
controls. Characters using a utilitool gain a +10
modifier to skills involving repairing or modifying de-
vices with mechanical parts, opening locks, disarming
alarm systems, or performing first aid. [Low]
   Viewers: These small and highly advanced binoculars
possess all the visual enhancement of specs (p. 325), but
also provide 50x magnification. They also include a di-
rectional microphone that magnifies sound from the di-
rection the viewers are pointed by a factor of 50. View-
ers provide the user with a +30 bonus to all Perception
Tests involving vision or hearing for the target they are
aimed at. This bonus is not cumulative with bonuses
from any other device or augmentation. [Low]



NANOTECHNOLOGY
Nanotechnology is the precise manipulation of matter
at the atomic level, typically using millions of micro-
scale nanomachines. Nanotechnology transformed
manufacturing, enabling new techniques and materi-
als. The advent of nanofabrication—building objects
from the molecular level up—transformed economies,
allowing people to simply manufacture whatever they
needed from raw materials. Nanotechnology is still a
growing field, however, and has its limitations. While
the TITANs unleashed self-replicating nanoswarms
with the ability to transform or destroy anything
through the power of geometric growth, such technol-
ogy remains far beyond transhumanity's grasp.

BASIC NANOTECHNOLOGY
Basic nanotechnology is exceedingly widespread
and used throughout the solar system, serving as the
primary method of manufacturing for decades. The
nanobots of basic nanotech are confined to delicate
and specially-maintained environments like the
insides of cornucopia machines or healing vats and
cannot operate elsewhere.

HEALING VATS
Healing vats were the first type of nanotech medicine
developed and remain the most powerful medical
devices in common use. With the exception of a few
exceptionally deadly nanoplagues, a healing vat can
cure any disease and heal any injury. As long as the
patient is alive when they are place in the healing
vat, they will not only survive, but emerge without a
scratch. A healing vat can even take a severed head (as
long as it has been stabilized by medichines or nano-
tech first aid) and regrow an entire body based on the
head's genetics. If the patient's body or medical records
%%% 329.txt %%%
                                                  HEALING VAT TABLE
INJURY                                                                                                   HEALING TIME
                                                                                                        2 hours per wound
Healing normal damage to a character who has taken 3 or fewer wounds.
                                                                                                    (min. 1 hour for 0 wounds)
Restoring major lost body parts like arms or legs, or healing dying or nearly dead character
                                                                                                       12 hours per wound
who has taken 4 wounds.
Restoring recently dead character who was placed in medical stasis to avoid death, but
                                                                                                         1 day per wound
who is mostly intact.
Restoring recently dead character who is placed in medical stasis to avoid death,
                                                                                                        3 days per wound
and who is missing most of their body.
Augmentation
Minor implants and bioware, minor cosmetic changes like alterations in skin color, eye
color or shape, or hair color, texture or distribution, minor alterations to face shape or                   1 hour
body fat distribution.
Major brain and neural implants, nanoware or bioware, sex changes, changing height by
                                                                                                             12 hours
no more than 5% or weight by no more than 20%.
Major physical modifications like adding limbs or radical changes to height and weight.                       3 days



 contain information about their implants, bioware, or                      manufactured good, from a weapon to an ultralight
 advanced nanotechnology, all of these modifications                        plane to a hot and delicious dinner. Many nanofabri-
 are also fully restored.                                                   cators come equipped with a library of common-use
    Few people suffer injuries serious enough to require                    blueprints (basic foods, standard clothing, common
 a healing vat. Most are used as a safe and easy way                        tools, etc.). Other blueprints must either be purchased
 to perform bodysculpting or to install implants or                         online, self-programmed, or acquired through some
 bioware. Healing vats use specialized nanomachines                         other method (see Nanofabrication, p. 284). The larg-
 to either alter the patient's body or integrate implants                   est nanofabrication units are more than 10 meters on
 or bioware. One advantage of using a healing vat is                        a side and are used to produce small consumer goods
 that no additional healing time is needed, the patient                     in bulk as well as building large devices like orbital
 leaves the vat fully recovered from the augmentation                       transfer vehicles.
 and ready to go. Every hospital, clinic, bodyshop, and                        The availability and legality of nanofabricators
 augmentation parlor has several healing vats. The                          varies widely throughout the system. In the inner
 time required by a healing vat varies with the sever-                      system and Jovian Republic, cornucopia machines
 ity of the damage it is healing or the extent of the                       are commonly restricted and sometimes illegal, with
 modification being made, as noted on the Healing Vat                       licenses only available to hypercorps, military units,
 table, p. 327. [High]                                                      and other officials and elites. In these habitats, only
                                                                            more limited fabbers are available to the general
 NANODETECTORS                                                              populace. Additionally, blueprints are licensed and
 Nanodetectors are small devices that suck in air and                       protected by copyright laws, and many nanofabrica-
 micro debris in order to scan for and detect nano-                         tors feature pre-programmed restrictions that prevent
 bots. Given that nanobots are so small, the density of                     them from using unlicensed blueprints as well as
 nanobots in the area has a large impact on its success.                    from manufacturing weapons, explosives, or other
 The nanodetector has a base skill of 30 for detecting                      restricted items. Among the autonomists of the outer
 nanobots, modified by +30 if an active nanoswarm or                        system, however, nanofabricators are commonly ac-
 hive is present, +0 if a nanoswarm or hive was active                      cessible, shared by everyone, and unrestricted.
 recently, and –10 for the presence of nanobots outside                        For rules on creating goods in a nanofabricator, see
 of a swarm or hive. Once a nanobot is detected it may                      Nanofabrication, p. 284.
 be analyzed either by the user or the nanodetector's AI,                      Desktop Cornucopia Machine: Cornucopia ma-
 using Academics: Nanotechnology 30 skill. Nanode-                          chines (CMs) are general-purpose nanofabricators.
 tectors are often worn and left on, set to alert the user                  The smallest CMs are desk-sized cubes approximately
 if a hostile nanoswarm is detected. [Low]                                  half a meter on a side with a volume of at least 40
                                                                            liters. They can produce any small object, from tools
 NANOFABRICATORS                                                            to well-folded suits of clothing to handguns or a bowl
 Nanofabrication machines are universal assemblers                          of cereal. It is sometimes possible to assemble larger
 that perform almost all of the manufacturing in the                        items, but they must be manufactured in smaller
 solar system. The user loads in raw materials and                          pieces and then assembled (likely requiring an appro-
 electronic plans and it can produce literally any                          priate Hardware Test).
%%% 330.txt %%%
  While users can purchase bulk raw materials, CMs
also come equipped with a disassembler. The user
loads garbage and other objects into the disassembler
so that they can be turned into raw materials for the
CM. All legally-available disassemblers only decon-
struct non-living material. [Expensive]
   Fabber: Fabbers are specialized nanofabricators,
portable and considerably smaller than CMs. There
are a wide variety of portable fabbers, including
ones that can make any hand tool or small piece of
personal electronics, ones that can turn any organic
material into food and drink, and ones that can create
any drug or medicine as well as bandages and spe-
cialized dressings. The most common fabbers have a
volume of 4 liters. Larger hand tools and devices are
produced as 2 or 3 separate parts that must be fitted
together. Like CMs, fabbers also contain miniature
disposal units. [Moderate]
   Maker: Makers are specially-designed to produce
food and drink for the user. Raw materials can be pro-
vided by the addition of any water-containing liquid
and collected biomass like leftover food, grass, dirt,
dead animals, or transhuman waste. Some models are
built into standard vacsuits. Makers can produce water
and various flavored beverages, as well as ration bars
or thick pudding-like edible gels. With adequate raw
material, a maker can indefinitely provide food and
drink for up to three transhumans. Most units, how-
ever, have a very limited range of flavors and textures
that are widely considered to be fairly bad. Models
with a wider and better range of flavors and textures
are more expensive, but produce food that is consid-
ered adequate or occasionally good. [Low to Moderate]
   Blueprints: If you want a nanofabricator to make
something, you need to instruct the device how to
create it from the molecular level up. Such blueprints
are available for almost every conceivable item out
there. The cost of such blueprints typically equals
the cost of purchasing the item, though factors like
legality and quality may affect the cost as usual (see
Acquiring Gear, p. 296). [One Cost Category Higher
Than Item Cost]

ADVANCED NANOTECHNOLOGY
Advanced nanotechnology includes more recent
developments. Like basic nanotech, advanced nano-
technology cannot self-replicate but the nanobots
can function normally in most environments and are
highly resistant to bacterial attacks and other environ-
mental problems. Typical advanced nanotech consists
of a generator—known as a “hive”—that produces
nanobots as long as it is supplied with raw materials.
Every such hive also includes a miniature disassembly
unit and/or specialized nanomachines that collect
raw materials for the generator. These hives produce
nanobot swarms that are set loose to perform some
function in the world.
  Examples of advanced nanotech include COTs (p.
315), medichines (p. 308), smart dust (p. 316), and
utilitools (p. 326), among others.
   General Hive: General hives are capable of produc-
ing any conceivable type of nanobot with the right
blueprints and/or programming. Even at their smallest
size they are not really portable, with a minimum size
being cubes 30 centimeters on a side and a volume of
25 liters. [Expensive]
   Specialized Hive: Specialized hives are far more
common than general hives, though they can produce
only one type of nanomachines (i.e., choose one type
of nanoswarm per hive). The smallest specialized
hives are approximately the size of a 12-gauge shot-
gun shell or a large cherry tomato. [High]

EGO BRIDGES
Ego bridges are vat devices used for uploading and
downloading minds. See Backups and Uploading, p.
268, and Resleeving, p. 271. [Expensive]

NANOSWARMS AND MICROSWARMS
Swarms are colonies of nanobots or larger microbots
created in a hive, programmed with specific instruc-
tions, and then set free to perform a set task. Each
swarm is composed of hundreds or thousands of
nanobots or microbots, ranging in size from a mi-
crobe to a small insect. Nanobots are typically invis-
ible to the naked eye, though they can be detected
with a nanodetector (p. 326) or nanoscopic vision (p.
311). Microbots are more noticeable but still quite
small, usually the size of a grain of sand or a dust
mote, or occasionally as big as a flea. Individual bots
in a swarm are directed by nanocomputers, with be-
havioral routines modeled on biological insect and
animal swarms. These swarms stick together and
work as a whole, communicating with nanoradios,
nanolasers, or chemical cues, and sharing informa-
tion between each bot in the swarm. Note that nano-
swarms don't invade inside living bodies (though they
may attack externally)—internal nano is handled by
nanoware (p. 308), nanodrugs (p. 321), and nanotox-
ins (p. 324).
   Nanobots and microbots may be designed with
all manner of miniaturized propulsion systems (see
Mobility Systems, p. 310), with the exception of ionic
drives. They are powered by tiny batteries or solar
cells. Their tiny sensors are very effective at allow-
ing them to identify materials and objects, and so to
target discriminatingly. Nanobots or microbots could,
for example, be programmed to ignore metal objects,
certain types of plants, specific morphs, females, or
specific individuals. Swarms may either be released
directly from a hive or from pre-packaged program-
mable canisters.
   Swarms must be programmed before they are re-
leased. The programming first determines how long
the swarm is active. This timeframe is open-ended,
though most swarms deteriorate into ineffectiveness
after 2 weeks unless they are replenished by a hive.
The programming then sets what area the swarm is
to occupy. This is also open to interpretation and
can vary from “coat this person” to “spread out to a
%%% 331.txt %%%
diameter of 20 meters” to “find the nearest chemical
traces and track them to their source.” Finally, pro-
gramming sets any other parameters for the swarm's
mission—for example, if it should ignore certain ma-
terials, if it should send a report at a predetermined
time, or if it should self-destruct into harmless dust
when it has completed a certain task.
   Programming is generally handled as a Simple
Success Test using Programming (Nanoswarm) skill.
Failure simply infers that the programming is imper-
fect, and so the swarm may not operate completely as
planned. An actual Programming (Nanoswarm) Suc-
cess Test is only called for if the swarm's programming
is substantially complex or if the character seeks to
have the swarm act outside of its usual set functions.
The bots in each swarm are specially equipped for the
task they are designed for, however, so attempting
to drastically repurpose a swarm may be difficult or
pointless at the gamemaster's discretion.
   Swarms may also be teleoperated, controlled, and/
or (re)programmed once they are released, via radio
or laser link.
   Swarms are treated as a whole. The standard swarm
size is enough to cover a 10 x 10 x 10 meter cube,
and this is the standard “unit” of swarm released by
a canister or hive. Swarms may be larger, but they are
treated as individual swarm units. Each swarm has
a Durability of 50 and is immune to wounds. Most
attacks against a swarm simply inflict 1 point of
damage. Area-effect weapons, plasma rifles, and fire
inflict 1d10 damage, plasma grenades do full damage.
Swarms are not affected by vacuum.
   Cleaners: This nanoswarm cleans, polishes, and
removes dirt and stains. It may be used on an area,
specific objects, or people. Some facilities employ
permanent cleaner swarms to keep their area spotless.
Cleaners may also be programmed to remove specific
toxins, chemicals, or other hazardous substances in
order to decontaminate an area. Covert operatives
and criminals sometimes use cleaners to eliminate
any evidence they may have left at a scene usable for
forensics purposes, such as blood, hair, or anything
that could be DNA-typed. [Low]
   Disassemblers: Also known as smart corrosives,
these nanobots break down any matter. Their ad-
vantage over common acids is that not only are
they able to break down any material by using
energy to disrupt chemical bonds, but that they
can be programmed to take apart certain compo-
nents while ignoring others, leaving them intact.
Disassemblers are a common weapon used against
synthmorphs, eating away their components with-
out having to worry about accidentally splashing
biomorphs. Upon contact, these nanobots infl ict
1d10 ÷ 2 damage (round up) per Action Turn. Ac-
cumulated damage counts as a wound when the
Wound Threshold is reached. Both Energy and Ki-
netic armor protect against this damage, but these
armors are eaten away as well, so the Armor Value
is reduced by the soaked DV. [High]
   Engineers: Engineer microswarms are used for
various construction purposes: erecting walls, digging
tunnels, sealing holes, reinforcing foundations, and so
on. [Moderate]
   Fixers: This is the nanoswarm version of repair
spray (p. 333). [Moderate]
   Injectors: Injector microswarms are equipped with
tiny needles and a drug payload. A biological target
affected by an injector swarm suffers 1 point of
damage and the effects of the carried drug, chemical,
or toxin. [Moderate]
   Gardeners: This microswarm is useful for a number
of agricultural purposes: killing weeds, planting seeds,
trimming plants, pollinating, and even harvesting
small items. It may also be programmed to simply
defoliate an area. [Moderate]
   Guardians: Guardians watch for and attack other
unauthorized swarms. Guardians inflict 1d10 ÷ 2
damage (round up) on other swarms they come into
contact with per Action Turn. [Moderate]
   Proteans: This nanoswarm is designed to disassem-
ble other materials and objects and to create a single
specific, pre-programmed device from the components
(much like a specialized nanofabricator). The proteans
must be able to scavenge appropriate raw materials
(for example, to create a metallic device the nanobots
must transform something else made of metal). The
construction time takes 1 hour per cost category of
the item (1 hour for a Trivial cost item, 2 hours for
Low, etc.). [High]
   Saboteurs: Sab nanobots are designed to infiltrate
electronics or machinery and sabotage them in small
but difficult to discern ways: severing connections,
disabling components, gumming up moving parts,
etc. Saboteurs inflict damage on devices similar to
disassemblers, but the target is not destroyed and
such damage is not immediately obvious. They inflict
1d10 ÷ 2 points of damage to synthmorphs, bots, and
other devices every Action Turn. Armor has no effect,
but accumulated damage counts as a wound when the
Wound Threshold is reached. [High]
   Scouts: A scout nanoswarm will system-
atically map and explore an area, collecting
samples of all materials and substances it
encounters. The samples are carried back
to the hive or canister and chemically ana-
lyzed. Scouts can also be used for forensic
purposes, collecting DNA samples, analyz-
ing chemical residues, and examining other
evidence. [High]
   Taggants: Taggants seek to lodge themselves
onto everything in their area of dispersal.
Each carries a unique identifier, so that if it is
found later, the tagged person or object can
be linked back to the point they were tagged.
Taggants can be programmed to remain silent,
only responding to query broadcasts made
with the proper crypto codes, or they can be
programmed to broadcast their location back
to the deployer via the mesh. [Low]
%%% 332.txt %%%
                                                          PETS
CREATURE       COG COO INT REF SAV SOM WIL INIT SPD DUR WT LUC TT SKILLS
Fur Coat        1   1    1    5    1   5    1    12   1     15   3     2    1 —
                                                                                Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Intimidation 30, Percep-
Smart Dog       5   10   15   15   5   15   10   60   1     25   5     20   4
                                                                                tion 30, Scrounging 30, Unarmed Combat 40
                                                                              Climbing 50, Fray 30, Freerunning 30, Infiltra-
Smart Monkey    5   15   15   15   5   10   10   60   1     20   4     20   4 tion 30, Perception 30, Scrounging 30, Unarmed
                                                                              Combat 30
                                                                                Climbing 40, Fray 40, Freerunning 30, Infiltration
Smart Rat       5   15   15   15   5   5    10   60   2     5    1     20   4
                                                                                50, Perception 20, Scrounging 50
                                                                                Fray 30, Free Fall 30, Infiltration 50, Perception 20,
Space Roach     1   10   10   15   5   5    5    50   1     5    1     10   2
                                                                                Scrounging 50


 PETS                                                                and compound spectra. Its built in AI comes equipped
 These partially-uplifted and bio-engineered animals                 with Academic: Chemistry 30. [Moderate]
 have rudimentary intelligence and limited communica-                   Specimen Container: This capsule container is
 tion skills. They make for fine companions and helpers.             designed to hold samples of any sort (chemical, bio-
    Fur Coat: A so-called “fur coat” is outerwear made               logical, etc.) in near stasis. It can be programmed to
 from a living primitive organism. The creature's skin,              reproduce whatever conditions the user specifies, from
 fur, or scales are real. The organism is cultivated from            cryogenic freezing to extreme heat, or even vacuum or
 transgenic stocks and grown around molds into cloth-                high-pressure atmosphere. [Low]
 ing shapes, often with actual usefulness: polar bear                   Superthermite Charges: These powerful and highly
 parkas, seal diving suits, porcupine coats, etc. Fur                stable demolition charges are made from a combina-
 coats are modified with wireless controls and haptic                tion of nanometals and metal oxides. A single charge
 systems, so they can be made to move, shiver, massage,              can be used to create an explosive blast inflicting
 or prickle up on command. [Low]                                     2d10+5 damage. This charge can be shaped with a
    Smart Dogs: Commonly used as discriminatory                      successful Demolitions Test, focusing the blast in a
 guardians, smart dogs are sometimes enhanced with                   particular 90-degree direction (for example, to blow
 combative bioware or cybernetics. [Moderate]                        through a door). This triples the damage of the blast
    Smart Monkey: Commonly used by criminal groups                   in the focused direction; in all other directions, the
 for minor larceny such as pickpocketing, smart mon-                 damage is reduced to 1/3rd (round down). Multiple
 keys can be useful and intelligent aides. [Moderate]                charges apply a cumulative effect. [Moderate]
    Smart Rats: These upgrades of the common Norwe-
 gian rat are clever and dexterous, and they easily fit              SERVICES
 into a pocket or hood. [Low]                                        Anonymous Accounts: These accounts are crucial
    Space Roach: Grown to the size of a small dog,                   for anyone who wants to be discreet with their
 these insects are often biosculpted for bright colors               online transactions. See Anonymous Account Ser-
 and patterns. They are useful for minor janitorial                  vices, p. 252. [Moderate]
 duties. [Low]                                                          Backup: A single, one-time backup without insur-
                                                                     ance is sometimes all the poor can afford, hoping
 SCAVENGER TECH                                                      that they can buy backup insurance later or that
 This technology is often employed by gatecrashers,                  someone that cared about them will see to a re-
 space scavengers, and Firewall teams during missions.               sleeving. [Moderate]
    Disassembly Tools: These tools are useful for sal-                  Backup Insurance: In the event of verifiable
 vage ops, breaking down wrecks, or dissembling any-                 death, or after a set period of being missing, backup
 thing from a habitat room to a vehicle or synthmorph.               insurance will arrange for your cortical stack to be
 They include plasma torches, laser cutters, pneumatic               retrieved and your ego downloaded into another
 jaws, and smart tools like spanners and wrenches that               morph. If the cortical stack cannot be retrieved, your
 can be adopted to a wide array of connections and                   most recent backup is used. Most policies require
 fittings. [High]                                                    that the holder provide a backup to be uploaded
    Mobile Lab: The mobile lab is a handheld device                  into secure storage at least twice a year. This industry
 that contains all different types of sensors to investi-            works in a manner similar to insurance underwriting
 gate organic and inorganic liquid, gaseous, and solid               in terms of cost and individuals engaged in high risk
 components (from soil to tissue samples) and compo-                 professions can expect to pay a premium for the ser-
 sitions. It performs material analysis using different              vice. Additionally, attempts to retrieve a cortical stack
 methods of spectrometry and biochemical testing,                    are minimal unless one wants to pay for some extra
 comparing results to a built-in database of element                 effort (a thriving industry of paramilitary ego-repo
%%% 333.txt %%%
operatives exists for this purpose). [Low to Moderate
per month]
   Body Bank: People who are egocasting to another
station but whom hope to download back into the
same body they have before when they return may
put the morph on ice for the duration of their absence.
[Moderate per month]
   Bot/Pod Rental: When you need a helping hand or
a personal companion for a day or two, renting a bot
or pod is often the way to go. [Moderate per day]
   Egocasting: This is the use of a farcaster to trans-
mit an ego/infomorph. Farcasting is not cheap, and
the cost is impacted by factors such as distance to
receiver station and priority service (paying extra to
get bumped ahead in line). [Expensive]
   Fake Ego ID: This forged ID will pass in most inner
system and Jovian Republic habitats, and sometimes
others. [High]
   Morph Brokerage: Acquiring a new morph is not
always easy and is affected by factors such as the type
of morph, sought-after enhancements/customizations,
and local availability. Numerous brokerage services
exist to find you what you need, or close to it. With
enough lead-time, it may be possible to grow a pod
that closely imitates your morph of choice. A willing-
ness to accept used/traded-in morphs helps to reduce
costs. For more details, see Morph Brokerage, p. 276.
   Psychosurgery: A character can purchase time in an
immersive high-fidelity simulspace with expert care
from psychosurgeons and AIs in order to cope with
derangements and disorders that build up as a result
of existing in a transhuman universe. For an addi-
tional price the procedure can be time shifted to speed
up the relative time within the simulspace. For more
details, see Mental Healing and Psychotherapy, p. 215,
and Psychosurgery, p. 229. [Moderate per month]
   Simulspace Subscription: This will by you access to
the simulspace of your choice, whether you want it for
a private meeting/vacation or to play the latest and
hottest VR game. [Low (single use/1 day) to Moderate
(monthly subscription)]
   Space Travel: Space transport cost depends on a
number of factors like distance, quality of lodgings,
and how much cargo you're bringing with. At the low
end, an intra-habitat shuttle trip within the same clus-
ter, or a trip to or from a planetary body's surface and
orbit, is not cheap but affordable [High]. Just about
anything else is progressively more costly. [Expensive]
SOFTWARE
For information on using software, see the Mesh chap-
ter, p. 234.

PROGRAMS
These programs can be run on any computerized device.
   AR Illusions: These databases of AR clips can be used
to create realistic illusions in someone's entoptic display.
See Augmented Reality Illusions, p. 259. [Moderate]
   Exploit: Exploits are hacker tools that take advan-
tage of known vulnerabilities in other software. They
are required for intrusion attempts (p. 254). [High]
   Facial/Image Recognition: This program can be
used to take an image and run a pattern-matching
search among public archives. Similar version of this
program exist for other biometrics: gait recognition,
vocal recognition, etc. [Low]
   Firewall: This program protects a device from
hostile intrusion. Every system comes with a standard
version of this software by default. [Low]
   Sniffer: Sniffer programs collect all of the transmis-
sion that pass to, from, or through the device they are
running on. See Sniffing, p. 252. [Moderate]
   Spoof: Spoof is a hacker tool used to fake com-
mands and transmissions, making them seem as if
they came from another source. See Spoofing Authen-
tication, p. 255. [Moderate]
   Tactical Networks: These programs allow people in
the same squad to share tactical data in real-time. See
Tactical Networks, p. 205. [Moderate]
   Tracking: This software is used to track people by
their presence online. See Scanning, Tracking, and
Monitoring, p. 251. [Moderate]
   XP: Experience playback recordings are clips of
someone else's experiences. Depending on the content,
some XP (porn, snuff, crime, etc.) may be restricted in
certain jurisdictions. Some XP clips are intentionally
modified so that their emotive tracks are more intense,
giving the viewer a greater thrill. [Low to High]

AIS AND MUSES
Every character starts with a personal muse for free.
Many devices also come with pre-installed AIs, ca-
pable of helping the user, responding to commands, or
even operating the device on their own. Rules for AIs
can be found on p. 264.
   Below are some commonly available AI programs.
Unless otherwise noted, these AIs have aptitudes of 10.
These AIs may also be equipped with skillsofts (p. 332).
   Bot/Vehicle AI: These AIs are designed to be capa-
ble of piloting the robot/vehicle without transhuman
assistance. REF 20. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 20,
Infosec 20, Interests: [Bot/Vehicle] Specs 80, Interface
40, Research 20, Perception 40, Pilot: [appropriate
field] 40. [High]
   Device AI: These AIs are designed to operate a par-
ticular device without transhuman assistance. Skills:
Infosec 20, Interests: [Device] Specs 80, Interface 30
(Device Specialization), Programming 20, Research 20,
Perception 20. [Moderate]
%%% 334.txt %%%
  Kaos AI: Kaos AIs are used by hackers and covert
ops teams to create distractions and sabotage systems.
REF 20. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 40, Infosec 40,
Interface 40, Professional: Security System 80, Pro-
gramming 40, Research 20, Perception 30 plus one
weapon skill at 40. [Expensive]
   Security AI: Security AIs provide overwatch for
electronic systems. Skills: Hardware: Electronics 30,
Infosec 40, Interface 40, Professional: Security Sys-
tems 80, Programming 40, Research 20, Perception
30, plus one weapon skill at 40. [High]
   Standard Muse: Muses are digital entities that have
been designed as personal assistants and lifelong com-
panions for transhumans (see AIs and Muses, p. 264).
INT 20. Skills: Academics: Psychology 60, Hardware:
Electronics 30, Infosec 30, Interface 40, Professional:
Accounting 60, Programming 20, Research 30, Per-
ception 30, plus three other Knowledge skills at 40.
[High]

SCORCHERS
Scorchers are damaging neurofeedback programs used
to torment hacked cyberbrains (p. 261).
   Bedlam: Bedlam programs assault the ego with
traumatic mental input, inflicting mental stress.
Victims are overwhelmed with horrific, monstrous,
sanity-ripping sensory and emotional input. Each
attack inflicts 1d10 SV. [High]
   Cauterizer: This scorch program rips into the ego
with destructive neurofeedback routines. Each attack
with a cauterizer inflicts 1d10 + 5 DV on the target
ego. This damage is reflected as digitized neurologi-
cal damage. [High]
   Nightmare: Nightmare programs trigger anxiety
and panic attacks within the victim by stimulating the
neural circuitry representing the amygdala and hip-
pocampus. The target ego must make a WIL x 2 Test.
If they succeed, they are shaken but otherwise unaf-
fected, suffering a –10 modifier to all actions until the
end of the next Action Turn. If they fail, they suffers
1d10 ÷ 2 stress damage and are overcome with panic.
This causes them either to blindly flee, have a nervous
breakdown, or cower in frozen shock (gamemaster's
discretion). This panic episode lasts for 1 Action Turn
per 10 points of MoF. [High]
   Shutter: Shutters target the victim's sensory cortices,
inflicting a –30 modifier to one chosen sense. Double
this modifier if the attacking hacker scored an Excel-
lent Success. This modifier reduces at the rate of 10
points per Action Turn. [High]
   Spasm: Spasm programs are design to incapacitate
the ego with excruciating pain. Affected targets must
immediately make a WIL x 2 Test. If they fail, they
immediately convulse, are disabled, and writhe in
agony for 1 Action Turns per 10 full points of MoF.
If they succeed, they still suffer a –30 modifier to all
actions, which reduces at the rate of 10 points per
Action Turn. Due to the nature of the delivery, pain
tolerance of any sort has no effect. [High]
SKILLSOFTS
Skillsofts are used with skillware implants (p. 309).
  Standard Skillsoft: These programs provide the
character with a rating of up to 40 in a single Active
skill. [High]

SURVIVAL GEAR
The following gear is often critical to the survival of
 soldiers, spies, criminals, gatecrashers, emergency ser-
 vice personnel, and others who regularly venture into
 unsafe or unfamiliar regions.
    Breadcrumb Positioning System: This worn device
 leaves micro “breadcrumbs” behind as the character
 moves. These devices interact with mesh inserts (or
 ectos) as long as they are within range (50 meters),
 allowing the user to map their position in relation to
 the breadcrumb trail. This is useful in derelict habitats,
 wilderness, and other areas where there is no local
 functioning mesh, and is helpful both for mapping
 and for finding one's way back. [Low]
    Electrogravitics Net: Also called a safety net, this fail-
 safe system uses electric fields to counter gravity when
 falling. While the system is not able to actually levitate
 heavy objects, it will slow down a fall enough that the
 user can land safely if the gravitational force is not too
 high (the fall height is not greater than 50 meters in
1G). Generating these electric fields consumes a lot of
 energy, so the net is only charged for one use only and
 needs to be recharged afterwards. [Moderate]
    Electronic Rope: The
 fibers in this rope can be
 controlled electronically,
 making it move in a snake-
 like fashion, stiffen up, and
 even wrap around objects.
Typically comes in a 50-
 meter length capable of
 supporting 250 kg. [Low]
    Emergency Bubble: Com-
 monly used as a last resort
“life raft” on spaceships, an
 emergency bubble is made
 of advanced smart materi-
 als and comes in a por-
 table package that can be
 quickly inflated (1 Action
Turn) around the user, usu-
 ally inside an airlock. The
 bubble has a 5-meter diameter and can comfortably
 accommodate 4 people. It maintains 1 atmosphere of
 pressure in a vacuum, protect the inhabitants from
 temperatures ranging from –175 to 140 C, and pro-
 vide light, breathable air and water and food recycling
 for up to four human-sized inhabitants, using its built
 in maker (p. 327). It features a simple airlock, carries
 an emergency distress beacon (below), and can be
 transparent, opaque, or polarized. It is powered by a
 small nuclear battery and also includes comfortable
 inflatable furniture. [Moderate]
%%% 335.txt %%%
   Emergency Distress Beacon: This small but power-
ful transmitter is powered by a nuclear battery and
will broadcast any programmed distress call for years.
Though portable and medium-sized, this beacon has
a range of 500 km in urban areas and 5,000 km else-
where. [Moderate]
   Flashlight: These handheld, wearable, or portable
lights can display light in the normal visual spectrum,
infrared, or ultraviolet, as desired. [Trivial]
   Nanobandage: Characters without medichines must
rely on external sources of healing. The most common
option is the nanobandage—a plum-sized advanced
nanotechnology generator built into a reusable, self-
sterilizing bandage. It can treat all forms of injury and
illness, from poisoning to burns to trauma. Characters
simply apply the bandage to the wound and let the
nanobots do the work. It removes pain and discom-
fort and speeds healing (see Biomorph Healing, p.
208). For especially severe injuries, physical first aid
such as setting bones and removing projectiles may
be necessary (gamemaster's choice). If the wounds are
too severe (the patient has suffered more than five
wounds), the unit places the patient in medical stasis
and radios for emergency services. [Trivial]
   Repair Spray: This nanobot generator creates
nanobots designed to repair synthmorphs, vehicles,
and other common objects. Repair spray contains
the specifications and plans for almost all commonly
used synthmorphs and devices and is a ubiquitous
household item. If it does not contain the specifica-
tions for something it is being used to repair, it must
query the object's voice for these details, otherwise it
cannot repair it. Simply touch it to the damaged area,
push the button on top, and it sprays out a number of
nanobots sufficient to make repairs. These nanobots
repair 1d10 points of damage per 2 hours. Once all
damage is restored, the nanobots repair wounds at
the rate of 1 per day. Repair spray also cleans and
polishes items and returns them to a pristine and
new state. Repair spray is not effective on any object
with more than 3 wounds, but it provides a +30 to
all repair rolls on anything too badly damaged for it
to fully repair (see Synthmorph and Object Repair, p.
208). [Low]
   Shelter Dome: A variant of the emergency bubble,
this package unfolds into a dome with a 2.5-meter
ceiling and a floor 4 meters across. To safely use this
shelter, it must be staked down to the surface it is
placed on. [Moderate]
   Spindle: A spindle is an advanced nanotechnology
generator that produces a super-strong cable. It can
produce up to 2 kilometers of 0.2 millimeter diameter
line than can support up to 250 kilograms before it
needs more raw materials. The spindle can produce
up to 20 meters of cable every second. It can produce
line in a continuous length or cut the cable it produces
to any length. Spindles can also reabsorb their cable,
retracting it at a rate of 5 m per second. As long as
it is recharged and has small amounts of additional
material added every 1,000 hours of use, a spindle
can keep producing and retracting cable indefinitely.
By setting the maximum production speed at 10 m/
second a character with a spindle can safely jump
off a building and land safely, using the cable to slow
their descent. [Moderate]
   Spindle Climber: This device attaches to a spindle
and transforms it into a highly effective climbing
device. The spindle climber has two functions. First, it
attaches hardened tips to the spindle's cable and fires
it at high speed, up to 50 meters, with sufficient force
to imbed the tip into almost any sufficiently durable
surface. Second, the spindle climber can pull itself and
up to 250 kg up the cable at a speed of up to 2 m/sec.
A spindle climber has enough power to shoot and pull
up the cable 50 times before it must be recharged. A
spindle fits inside a spindle climber. [Low]

VACUUM SUITS
Most vacuum suits are skin-tight garments that use
the pressure of their advanced smartfabrics on the
wearer's body to resist vacuum. When the wearer is in
a breathable atmosphere, the smartfabric also loosens
the suits to serve as ordinary clothing or be easily
put on or taken off. In all cases, the suits can become
skin-tight within 3 Action Turns. All vacsuits contain
advanced rebreather units capable of maintaining a
breathable atmosphere for several hours or days.
   Light Vacsuit: Everyone living in a sealed habitat
owns at least one of these suits. They come in a vari-
ety of forms. Inexpensive versions are typically light-
weight jumpsuits made of simple smart fabric that
adjusts to fit and folds up small enough to fit into a
coat pocket. The best models include suits of high-end
smart clothing that can transform into a vacsuit and
an advanced nanotech generator the size of a large
orange that deploy nanobots that cover the user and
fit together into a vacuum suit. Both can transform
into a vacsuit in 2 full Action Turns and do so either
on command or if their sensors reveal that life sup-
port is needed.
   All models include a lightweight belt or torc
containing a miniature oxygen tank and advanced
rebreather unit that provides 3 hours of air. How-
ever, the suits contain no food or water recycling. All
models include an ecto (p. 325) and a headlight, but
typically little else beyond atmosphere sensors to let
the wearer know when it is safe to take off the suit.
They protect the wearer from temperatures from –75
to 100 C. These vacuum suits also provide an Armor
rating of 5/5 and instantly self-seal breaches unless
more than 20 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Low, Moderate for smartfabric suits]
   Standard Vacsuit: These suits resemble light vac-
suits made from thicker and more durable materials
that resist tearing and provides the wearer with light
armor. They are fitted with more substantial life sup-
port belts that includes a maker (p. 327) capable of
recycling all wastes and producing air for up to 48
hours and food and water indefinitely. The best suits
are made of smart materials that can transform from
%%% 336.txt %%%
standard clothing to vacuum suits in a single Action
Turn, and will do so automatically if life support is
needed. Each suit also contains an ecto (p. 325), a
radio booster (p. 313), and sensors equal to specs (see
p. 325). These suits have an Armor rating of 7/7 and
protect the wearer from temperatures from –175 to
140 C. They can almost instantly seal any hole unless
more than 30 points of damage are inflicted at once.
[Moderate, High for smartfabric suits]
   Hard Suit: This heavy-duty suit can almost be
considered a miniature space ship. Hard Suits look
like large metallic ovals with jointed arms and legs.
They are quite heavy, but the user can move relatively
easily by using servo assist motors in all the major
joints of the arms and legs. Unlike other vacsuits, they
are solid and can resist both vacuum and up to 100
atmospheres of external pressure. Characters wearing
hard suits can safely explore the upper atmosphere
of a gas giant. They are well armored against punc-
tures and radiation and possess miniature plasma
thrusters capable of delivering 0.01G for 10 hours. A
built-in high quality maker produces sufficient food,
air, and water that a user can remain in a hard suit
indefinitely. Explorers have used them continuously
for up to 2 months. Their gloves incorporate smart
materials that allow each hand to use the equivalent
of a utilitool (p. 326). Hard suits also contain radios
and sensors equivalent to those on standard vacsuits.
These suits have an Armor rating of 15/15, are main-
tained by a fixer nanohive (p. 329), and are instantly
self-sealing of any breach unless more than 30 points
of damage are inflicted at once. They protect the
wearer from temperatures of –200 to 180 C. [High]



WEAPONS
A wide range of weapons are available in Eclipse
Phase, from the primitive to the technologically
advanced.

MELEE WEAPONS
Melee weapons are those wielded by hand (or foot) in
melee combat. They are divided by the skill be which
they are used.

BLADES
These weapons are wielded with Blades skill.
   Diamond Axe: Commonly found on many habitats
for fire and emergency purposes, axes require two
hands to wield. Their blades are diamond-coated for
superior cutting ability. [Low]
   Flex Cutter: The blade of this machete-like weapon
is made of a memory polymer. When deactivated, the
blade is limp and flexible, and may even be rolled up
or otherwise easily concealed. When activated, how-
ever, the blade stiffens and sharpens into a vicious
slashing weapon. [Low]
   Knife: A standard cutting implement, still carried
by many. [Trivial]
   Monofilament Sword: Though swords are rather
archaic in the time of Eclipse Phase, a few eccentrics
take advantage of modern versions with a self-
sharpening near-monomolecular edge, easily capable
of slicing through metal or limbs. [Low]
   Vibroblade: These buzzing electronic blades vibrate
at a high frequency for extra cutting ability. This
has little extra effect when stabbing or slashing, but
provides an extra –3 AP and +2d10 damage when
carefully sawing through something. [Low]
   Wasp Knife: Wasp knives are equipped with a can-
ister in their handle. The common use is to fill these
canisters with pressured air, which inflates inside
the target. This is potentially lethal in vacuum or
pressurized environments (like underwater), as the
gas bursts out of the body cavity to escape (+2d10
damage in such situations). Wasp knives may also
be loaded with chemicals, drugs, or nanobots. The
target must be damaged for the canister's contents to
affect them. [Low]

CLUBS
Characters use Clubs skill when using these weapons.
  Club: Clubs encompasses a wide range of one-hand-
ed blunt objects, from saps to sticks to pipes. [Trivial]
  Extendable Baton: This hardened composite baton
retracts into its handle for easy carrying, storage, or
concealment. Extending it simply requires a flick or
an electronic signal. [Trivial]
  Shock Baton: Shock batons are standard clubs
used for policing duties, but when activated they also
deliver an electric shock to struck targets (see Shock
Attacks, p. 204). [Low]

EXOTIC MELEE WEAPONS
Unusual weapons requires a specific Exotic Melee
field skill to use.
   Monowire Garrote: This assassin's weapon fea-
tures a dangerous monomolecular wire wrapped
around a contained spool with two handles. One
handle grips the spool, while the other extends the
wire so that it may be used to wrap around targets
(typically necks or limbs) and slice through them
when pulled. Monofilament tensile strength is weak,
however, usually breaking after one use. [Moderate]

UNARMED
These weapons are wielded using Unarmed Combat skill.
  Densiplast Gloves: These gloves extra-harden when
activated, for extra punch. [Trivial]
  Shock Gloves: When activated, these gloves deliver
an incapacitating shock along with every punch or
grab. Note that the effect is the same whether wearing
one glove or two. [Low]
%%% 337.txt %%%
 KINETIC WEAPONS                                                  effectively recoilless (thanks to rheological smart
 Kinetic weapons damage the target by firing a hard               fluid mechanisms) and electronically fired (an electric
 impact projectile at high-velocities. Slugthrowers               charge vaporizes the propellant, using the expanding
 have evolved from the mechanical firearms of the                 steam and plasma to eject and accelerate the projectile).
 early 21st century, however, and now fall into two                  Note that older, pre-Fall firearms still exist and are
 categories: chemical firearms and railguns. Though               traded by black marketeers, though they use outdated
 their mechanisms for firing are different, they are              system such as liquid propellants or cased ammuni-
 roughly similar in effect. Railguns have a higher                tion. At the gamemaster's discretion, these relics may
 penetration and inflict more damage, which is offset             suffer shorter ranges, less penetration, fewer firing
 by more limited ammunition choices. While modern                 modes, or reduced damage.
 beam weapons have their uses, they rarely match the                 Pistols: Pistols are small-sized (p. 297) and de-
 punch of kinetic weapons, therefore slugthrowers                 signed for one-hand use. Light pistols sacrifice pene-
 are still perceived as the most versatile and effective          trating ability for concealability. Heavy pistols focus
 weapon system.                                                   on stopping power, with medium pistols occupying
   Kinetic weapons are constructed from lightweight,              a middle ground. All versions fire in semi-automatic,
 reinforced plastoceramic materials, which are easily             burst-fire, and full-auto modes. [Low]
 produced even without nanofabrication. By default,                  Submachine Guns: SMGs use pistol ammuni-
 modern kinetic weapons are ambidextrous but more                 tion, but are medium-sized (p. 297) and may fire in
 importantly feature safety and smartlink systems (p.             semi-auto, burst fire, or full auto modes. They typi-
 342) that automatically connect to the wielder's mesh            cally are designed in a bullpup configuration for
 inserts for firing assistance, target recognition, and           close quarters operations and are ideal for tactical
 tactical networking.                                             and strike teams. [Moderate]
   The wielder of a firearm or railgun uses Kinetic                  Automatic Rifles: Automatic rifles use rifle ammu-
 Weapons skill. For information on firing modes, see              nition and have greater range and penetration than
 p. 198. For different ammunition types, see p. 336.              SMGs. They fire in semi-auto, burst fire, or full auto
 Ranges are listed on p. 203.                                     modes. They are two-handed weapons. [Moderate]
                                                                     Sniper Rifle: Sniper rifles are optimized for range,
 FIREARMS                                                         accuracy, penetration, and stopping power. They fire
 Modern chemical firearms use caseless ammuni-                    in semi-auto, burst fire, or full auto modes, and are
 tion that is auto-loaded from a magazine. They are               two-handed weapons. [High]


              MELEE WEAPONS—BLADES, CLUBS, EXOTIC, UNARMED
BLADES                      ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)                 DAMAGE VALUE (DV)                    AVERAGE DV
Diamond Ax                              –3                         2d10 + 3 + (SOM ÷ 10)               14 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Flex Cutter                             –1                         1d10 + 3 + (SOM ÷ 10)               8 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Knife                                   –1                         1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)               7 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Monofilament Sword                       –4                         2d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)               13 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Vibroblade                              –2                          2d10 + (SOM ÷ 10)                  11 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Wasp Knife                              –1                         1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)               7 + (SOM ÷ 10)


CLUBS                       ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)                 DAMAGE VALUE (DV)                    AVERAGE DV
Club                                    —                         1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)                7 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Extendable Baton                        —                         1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)                7 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Shock Baton                             —                  1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10) + shock (p. 204)      7 + (SOM ÷ 10)


EXOTIC MELEE WEAPONS        ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)                 DAMAGE VALUE (DV)                    AVERAGE DV
Monowire Garrote                        –8                                 3d10                              16


UNARMED                     ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)                 DAMAGE VALUE (DV)                    AVERAGE DV
Bioware Claws (p. 304)                  –1                        1d10 + 1 + (SOM ÷ 10)                6 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Cyberclaws (p. 307)                     –2                        1d10 + 3 + (SOM ÷ 10)                8 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Densiplast Gloves                       —                         1d10 + 2 + (SOM ÷ 10)                7 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Eelware (p. 304)                        —                              shock (p. 204)                        —
Shock Gloves                            —                   1d10 + (SOM ÷ 10) + shock (p. 204)         5 + (SOM ÷ 10)
Unarmed                                 —                           1d10 + (SOM ÷ 10)                  5 + (SOM ÷ 10)
%%% 338.txt %%%
                                                                  the projectile exceeds that of an explosive-filled shell
BRAND NAME WEAPONS                                                of greater mass and creates shock and heat waves
                                                                  upon impact that shatter and incinerate the target, or
AND COMBINED ARMS                                                 portions of it. While railguns are more potent than
                                                                  firearms, the ammunition choices are limited as the
The weapons listed in this book define generic
                                                                  projectile must be conductive and able to survive
samples of each weapon. Gamemasters are en-
                                                                  both acceleration and heat created in the process due
couraged to offer brand name versions of each
                                                                  to friction. Nanofabrication allows railguns to be
weapon, each with its particular idiosyncrasies
                                                                  manufactured on the personal weapons scale while
and small variations. For example, a Direct
                                                                  high-energy portable batteries provide the power to
Action A30 SMG might lack a semi-automatic
                                                                  fire them. Railgun operation is silent except for the
setting but come equipped with an extra ammo
                                                                  supersonic crack of the projectile.
capacity of 35. Likewise, a Medusan Arms Longi-
                                                                     Railguns are available in the same models as fire-
nus sniper rifle may inflict an extra +2 damage
                                                                  arms (pistols through machine guns), with the follow-
but have an AP of only –12.
                                                                  ing modifications:
  Similarly, many of the weapons listed here are
available as combined arms weapons systems. A
                                                                   - Increase AP by –3
police-issue assault rifle may also feature a stun-
                                                                   - Increase damage by +2
ner—all built into the same weapon. For com-
                                                                   - Increase the maximum for each range category
bined arms, simply add together the individual
                                                                     by x1.5
weapon component costs.                         ■
                                                                   - Increase Cost category by one
                                                                   - Railguns may only use regular and armor-pierc-
                                                                     ing ammunition
   Machine Gun: Machine guns are heavy weapons,                    - Railguns also require battery power for each shot.
 typically mounted, and intended to provide continu-                 Standard railgun batteries hold enough power for
 ous fire for support or suppressive purposes. They fire             200 shots, after which they must be recharged at
 in burst fire or full auto modes, and are two-handed                the rate of 20 points per hour.
 weapons. [High]
                                                                  KINETIC AMMUNITION
 RAILGUNS                                                         Ammunition is defined by its various types (standard,
 Railguns use a pair of electromagnetic rails to slide            gel, APDS, etc.) and by the class of gun (light pistol,
 and accelerate a non-explosive conductive projectile at          heavy pistol, SMG, etc.). For simplicity, each gun
 extremely high velocities (Mach 6+) to create an over-           can trade ammunition with another gun of its class,
 whelming, penetrating attack. The kinetic energy of              though ammunition for firearms and railguns is not


                                KINETIC WEAPONS—FIREARMS
FIREARMS          ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)         DAMAGE VALUE (DV)         AVERAGE DV       FIRING MODES         AMMO
Light Pistol                  —                            2d10                 11              SA, BF, FA          10
Medium Pistol                 –2                       2d10 + 2                 13              SA, BF, FA          12
Heavy Pistol                  –4                       2d10 + 4                 15              SA, BF, FA          16
Submachine Gun                –2                       2d10 + 3                 14              SA, BF, FA          20
Automatic Rifle                –6                       2d10 + 6                 17              SA, BF, FA          30
Sniper Rifle                   –12                     2d10 + 10                 21              SA, BF, FA          40
Machine Gun                   –4                       2d10 + 6                 17                BF, FA            50



                                KINETIC WEAPONS—RAILGUNS
RAILGUNS          ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)         DAMAGE VALUE (DV)         AVERAGE DV       FIRING MODES         AMMO
Light Pistol                  –3                       2d10 + 2                 13              SA, BF, FA          10
Medium Pistol                 –5                       2d10 + 4                 15              SA, BF, FA          12
Heavy Pistol                  –7                       2d10 + 6                 17              SA, BF, FA          16
Submachine Gun                –5                       2d10 + 5                 16              SA, BF, FA          20
Automatic Rifle                –9                       2d10 + 8                 19              SA, BF, FA          30
Sniper Rifle                   –15                     2d10 + 12                 23              SA, BF, FA          40
Machine Gun                   –7                       2d10 + 8                 19               BF, FA             50
%%% 339.txt %%%
exchangeable. For example, all railgun SMGs can
share ammo.
  The ammunition's Damage Value and Armor Pen-
etration modifiers are added to the weapon's base
DV and AP. With the exception of regular and armor-
piercing rounds, none of this ammunition may be
used with railguns. Listed costs are per 100 rounds
of ammunition.
  Armor-Piercing: This tungsten-carbide ammunition
penetrates armor effectively. [Low]
   Bug: Bug rounds are equipped with a microbug and
medical sensor nanobots. They attempt to gather in-
formation on the target's location (via standard mesh
tracking), health (querying the target's medichines),
and surroundings (typically hindered by being inside
the target's body). They will transmit status reports
in a pre-programmed manner via the mesh or a pre-
chosen frequency band either continuously or in pre-
set intervals. [Low]
   Capsule: Capsule ammo carries a payload (drug,
toxin, nanobots) that is released inside the target after
the round penetrates. [Trivial plus payload cost]
   Flux: Flux ammo is made from rheological materi-
als that allow each bullet to be “programmed” so that
they may change from regular rounds to less-lethal soft
plastic-like rounds. This allows the firer to choose the
type of round (regular or plastic) made with each shot
or burst, and then change with the next one. [Low]
            KINETIC AMMUNITION
AMMO              AP MODIFIER       DV MODIFIER
Armor-Piercing        –5                  –2
Bug                   +1                –1d10
Capsule               +1                 –half
Flux              as ammo type       as ammo type
Hollow-Point          +2                +1d10
Jammer                —               no damage
Plastic           (AV doubled)           –half
Reactive              –2                  +2
Reactive Armor-
                      –6                  –1
Piercing
Regular               —                   —
Splash                —               no damage
Zap                   +2         –half + shock (p. 204)
SMART AMMO
Accushot              —                   —
Biter                 —                 +1d10
Flayer                —                   +2
Homing                —                   —
Laser-Guided          —                   —
Proximity             –1                  +2
Zero                  —                   —
%%% 340.txt %%%
   Hollow-Point: Hollow-point bullets are designed to
deform and widen once they penetrate a target, thus
inflicting more damage. [Trivial]
   Jammer: Jammers stick to the target and pulse out
jamming electromagnetic signals, jamming the target's
wireless communications. If an Opposed Test is called
for, these devices have an Interface of 30. See Radio
Jamming, p. 262. [Low]
   Plastic: Plastic ammo is designed to hurt but not
wound targets, and is commonly used for crowd con-
trol purposes. [Trivial]
   Reactive: The casing on these projectiles is made
of reactive materials that release a large amount of
energy when subjected to a sudden shock or impact—
such as striking a target. In other words, they explode
or superheat when they hit. [High]
   Reactive Armor-Piercing (RAP): This is a tung-
sten-carbide armor-piercing round with a reactive
casing, allowing the ammunition to penetrate even
further. [Moderate]
   Regular Ammo: This standard metal projectile is
designed to put holes into morphs. [Trivial]
   Splash: Splash rounds carry a payload like capsule
ammo, but are designed to break upon impact rather
than penetrating, splashing their contents on the
target's exterior. Splash rounds are typically loaded
with paint, taggant nanobots, tracker dye, and similar
substances. [Trivial plus payload cost]
   Zap: Zap rounds are rubber or gel bullets that
create an electric charge upon firing in a piezoelectric
like manner to stun the target effectively with both
the bullet and the electric shock. [Trivial]



SMART AMMO
Smart ammunition takes advantage of nanotechnol-
ogy to produce bullets that can alter their flight path,
home in the target, and correct aim. Smart ammo may
not be used with railguns. With the exception of biter,
flayer, and proximity rounds, smart ammo may be
combined with other ammo types (accushot armor-
piercing, for example).
   Accushot: Accushot bullets change shape within
flight to keep dead on course, countering the effects
of wind, drag, and gravity over distance. Attacks
made with accushot bullets ignore all range modi-
fiers. [Low]
   Biter: Biters are specially-designed to fragment in
opposite proportion to the hardness of the target they
strike. For hard targets (synthmorphs), they frag-
ment very little, blasting a big hole. For soft targets
(biomorphs), they fragment and tumble in multiple
directions within the body. [Low]
   Flayer: Flayers have nanosensors to detect an on-
coming impact, shooting out monomolecular barbs
as they are about to strike a target. These monowires
cut through the target along with the bullet, inflicting
additional damage. [Low]
   Homing: When fired with a smartlink system, the
bullet identifies the target and uses nanosensors to
lock on, correcting the bullet's trajectory with surface
alterations and tiny vectored nozzles. Apply a +10
modifier to the Attack Test, cumulative with aiming
and smartlink modifiers. Homing bullets may also be
used for indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]
   Laser-Guided: These bullets function like homing
smart rounds (apply the +10 attack modifier), except
rather than requiring a smartlink system, they lock
onto the reflection of the laser sight used to paint
the target. Laser-guided bullets may also be used for
indirect fire (p. 195). [Low]
   Proximity: Proximity is an explosive ammunition
that identifies the target when fired via smartlink. If
the round determines that it will miss the target, it will
still explode if it reaches the close proximity of the
target. If the attack misses with an MoF of 10 or less,
the round explodes 1d10 meters away from the target
and inflicts 1d10 area effect damage (see Blast Effect,
p. 193) in the proximity of the target. [Moderate]
   Zero: Similar to homing smart rounds, zero bullets
identify the target when fired via smartlink. Whether
the round hits or misses, however, it sends telem-
etry data back to the next zero bullet, allowing it to
course-correct and “zero in” to hit the target (or hit
more accurately). Apply a +10 modifier to each shot
(or burst) fired after the first against the same target in
the same Action Turn. [Low]

BEAM WEAPONS
Beam weapons is a broad category for a number of elec-
tromagnetic weapons with a wide range of effects. With
a few exceptions, energy weapons are primarily used for
less-than-lethal purposes, designed to impair the target
rather than kill it. Their poor performance against armor,
lesser ability to damage targets, and high power require-
ments make them less versatile than kinetic weapons.
The wielders of such weapons use Beam Weapons skill.
   Beam weapons are powered by nuclear batteries.
This battery is good for a list number of shots before
it is depleted. Batteries may be recharged at the rate
of 20 shots per hour.
   Laser Pulsers: Laser weapons use focused beams of
light to inflict damage on the target by burning into it
and causing it's outer surface to vaporize and expand,
creating an explosive effect. The laser beam is pulsed
in order to bite into the target before the beam is dif-
fused. Pulsers are vulnerable to atmospheric effects
like dust, mist, smoke, or rain, however—the game-
master should reduce their effective range categories
as appropriate. Note that laser pulses are invisible in
the normal visual spectrum (but are visible to charac-
ters with enhanced vision). Pulsers are medium-sized
(p. 297) and fire in semi-auto mode. [Moderate]
   One advantage to the pulser is that it can be placed
in less-lethal mode. In this case, it first fires a pulse at
the target to create a ball of plasma, quickly fired by
a second pulse that strikes the plasma and creates a
flash-bang shockwave to stun and disorient the target.
This blast has an area of effect with a 1-meter radius.
Anyone caught in the blast must make a SOM x 2
%%% 341.txt %%%
 Test (SOM x 3 for synthmorphs or biomorphs with                    overheating, however, and so require 1 full Action
 any form of pain tolerance). Failure means the target              Turn of cool-down time after every 2 shots. Plasma
 is temporarily stunned and disoriented and loses                   rifles only fire in single shot mode. [Expensive]
 their next action. A critical failure means the target                Stunner: The stunner is an electrolaser that cre-
 is knocked down and paralyzed for 1 Action Turn per                ates an electrically-conductive plasma channel to the
 10 points of MoF. In this stun setting, the pulser fires           target, down which it transmits a powerful electric
 only in single-shot mode.                                          current, shocking the target. Stunners do not work in
    Microwave Agonizer: The agonizer fires millimeter-              vacuum. Stunners fire in semi-auto mode. [Moderate]
 wave beams that create an unpleasant burning sen-
 sation in skin (even through armor) and to metals.                 SEEKERS
 Agonizers have two settings. The first is an active                Seekers are a combination of automatic grenade
 denial setting that causes extreme burning pain in the             launcher, micromissile, coilgun, and smart munitions
 target, inflicting –20 to the target's actions and forc-           technology. Unlike traditional launchers of the past,
 ing them to move away from the beam on their next                  miniaturization allows the manufacture of seeker mi-
 action unless they succeed in a WIL Test (targets with             cromissile launchers in personal weapon sizes. Seeker
 Level 1 Pain Tolerance or the equivalent only suffer               rounds are fired at high-velocity via rings of magnetic
 a –10 modifier and roll WIL x 2). Synthetic morphs                 coils, after which the micromissile or minimissile uses
 and biomorphs with Level 2 Pain Tolerance (or the                  scramjet technology to propel itself and maintain high
 equivalent) are immune to this weapon. The second                  velocities over great distances. Seekers are wielded
 setting (colloquially known as the “roast” setting) has            using Seeker Weapon skill.
 the same effect of the first, but also actually burns the             Seeker missiles are detailed on p. 340. Like gre-
 target, inflicting the listed damage. Originally devel-            nades, seekers may be programmed for a variety of
 oped for crowd control, the agonizer is also useful for            trigger events (see Grenades and Seekers, p. 199). All
 repelling animals. The agonizer is small-sized (p. 297)            seeker weapons are smartlink-equipped (p. 342).
 and fires in semi-auto mode. [Moderate]                               Disposable Launcher (Standard Missile): This
    Particle Beam Bolter: This weapon shoots a bolt of              launcher is pre-packed with one standard missile.
 accelerated particles at near light speed that transfer            [Moderate (includes missile)]
 massive amounts of kinetic energy to the target, su-                  Seeker Armband (Micromissile): This weapons unit
 perheating and creating an explosion when striking.                is worn on the arm, allowing the user to point and
 The bolter's beam is not diffused by the cloud that                fire using an entoptic smartlink system. Though highly
 occurs when it strikes, and so it has greater penetra-             portable, the armband's micromissile supply is low. It
 tion than the laser pulser. Likewise, the bolter is not            fires in single-shot mode. [Moderate]
 affected by smoke, fog, or rain. The bolter's beam is                 Seeker Pistol (Micromissile): This pistol-sized
 invisible. Note that bolters are designed for either               seeker launcher fires micromissiles in semi-auto
 atmospheric or exoatmospheric (vacuum) operation,                  mode. [Moderate]
 and will not function in the opposite environment
 (though bulkier dual models, combining both models,
 are also available). Bolters fire in semi-auto mode and                         SEEKER WEAPONS
 are rifle-sized two-handed weapons. [High]
                                                                SEEKER WEAPONS           FIRING MODES             AMMO
    Plasma Rifle: This bulky, heavy, two-handed
 weapon blasts a stream of nova-hot plasma at the               Disposable Launcher              SS                  1
 target, inflicting severe burns and thermal damage,            Seeker Armband                   SS                  4
 possibly melting or evaporating the target entirely.           Seeker Pistol                    SA                  8
 Plasma rifles are perhaps the deadliest man-portable           Seeker Rifle                      SA     12 micromissile/6 minimissi
 weapons in use. Plasma guns suffer from dangerous              Underbarrel Seeker               SA                  6



                                                BEAM WEAPONS
BEAM WEAPONS                     ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)      DAMAGE VALUE (DV)          AVERAGE DV FIRING MODES           AMMO
Cybernetic Hand Laser (p. 308)             —                         2d10                   11             SA                50
Laser Pulser                               —                         2d10                   11             SA               100
   Stun Mode                               —                         1d10                   5               SS               —
Microwave Agonizer                         —                 pain (see description)         —              SA               100
   Roast Mode                              –5                        2d10                   11             SA                50
Particle Beam Bolter                       –2                      2d10 + 4                 15             SA                50
Plasma Rifle                                –8                     3d10 + 12                 28              SS               10
Stunner                                    —              (1d10 ÷ 2) + shock (p. 204)       —              SA               200
%%% 342.txt %%%
    Seeker Rifle (Micromissile/Minimissile): The seeker                 Sprayer: This is a general-purpose two-handed
 rifle comes in a bullpup configuration and fires either             squirtgun, loaded with tanks filled with the chemical
 micromissiles or minimissiles in semi-auto mode. It is              or drug of the wielder's choice. [Low]
 a two-handed weapons. [High]                                           Torch: This modern flamethrower uses condensed
    Underbarrel Seeker (Micromissile): This seeker                   ammunition capsules rather than fuel tanks, scorch-
 micromissile launcher is commonly attached to the                   ing targets and setting them on fire. Any hit that is
 underbarrel of SMGs or assault rifles. It fires in semi-            an Excellent Success (MoS 30+) sets the target on
 auto mode. [Moderate]                                               fire, where they will continue to take 2d10 damage
                                                                     per Action Turn. These chemical fires are particularly
 SPRAY WEAPONS                                                       difficult to put out unless they are deprived of oxygen.
 Spray weapons blast their ammunition outwards in a                  Torches are two-handed. [Moderate]
 widening cone, allowing them to strike several targets
 at once. These weapons are wielded with Spray Weap-                 GRENADES AND SEEKERS
 ons skill. Spray weapon ammunition has a flat cost                 Grenades and seeker missiles come in similar muni-
 of Low per 100 shots (with the exception of buzzers,               tions packages and with similar trigger mechanisms,
 which use nanoswarms).                                             though their packaging, physical form, and methods
    Buzzer: Equipped with a specialized nanobot hive,               of application differ. Seeker missiles are fired from a
 Buzzers are used to spray a nanoswarm (p. 328) on a                 seeker launcher (p. 339) using Seeker Weapons skill.
 target or area. They have a limited capacity of swarms,            Grenades are thrown at targets using Throwing Weap-
 though the nanohive can construct one new swarm                    ons skill. If a grenade or seeker misses, use the rules
 each hour. This weapon is two-handed. [Moderate]                   for scatter (p. 204).
    Freezer: Freezers spew out a fast-hardening foam                   Grenades are available in standard form or as
 that immediately begins to harden. They are primar-                microgrenades. Similarly, missiles are available in
 ily used as a non-lethal method of immobilizing or                  standard, minimissile, or micromissile sizes. Standard
 securing a target. Struck characters must immediately               grenades and minimissiles are the baseline standard
 make a REF x 3 Test or become trapped. Apply a –30                 for listed effects. All are area effect weapons (p. 193).
 modifier to this test if the attacker scored an Excel-             Minigrenades and micromissiles inflict –1d10 damage
 lent Success (MoS 30+). The foam allows characters                 (or have another decreased effect as noted). Standard
 to breath even if their mouth and nose are covered,                missiles double the listed DV. For weapons with a
 but it may impede sight. Freezer foam can be spiked                unfirom blast effect or other static blast area, divide
 with contact toxins or drugs to additionally sedate                the base listed radius in half for minigrenades and mi-
 the target. It can also be used to construct temporary              cromissiles and double it for standard missiles. Listed
 barricades or cover. Hardened foam has an Armor of                  costs are for 10 grenades/missiles.
 10 and Durability of 20. It slowly breaks down and                    Each seeker has one smart ammo option (p. 338)
 degrades over a 12 hour period. Freezers are two-                  other than biter or flayer.
 handed. [Moderate]                                                    Concussion: These devices emit a concussive blast
    Shard Pistol: The shard pistol is a flechette weapon,           designed to knock opponents off their feet and stun
 firing a stream of of diamondoid monomolecular                     them. Any character caught within a base blast radius
 shards at high velocities. These micro flechettes are              of 10 meters must make a SOM x 2 Test. If they fail,
 very good at penetrating armor, but they do not dis-               they are knocked down. If their MoF is 30+, they are
 perse kinetic energy well and so do not cause as much              additionally stunned until the end of the next Action
 tissue damage as kinetic weapons. Shard ammunition                 Turn. Anyone caught in the blast radius suffers a
 is often coated with drugs or toxins for extra effi-               –10 action modifier for the rest of that Action Turn.
 ciency. [Low]                                                      [Moderate]
    Shredder: A heavier version of the shard pistol,                   EMP: EMP munitions fire off a strong electromag-
 the shredder fires a larger cloud of lethal flechettes,            netic pulse when they “detonate.” Since most electron-
 enough to shred a portion of the target into a fine                ics in Eclipse Phase are built with optical technology,
 mist. [Moderate]                                                   and power supplies and sensitive microcircuits are


                                                SPRAY WEAPONS
SPRAY WEAPONS          ARMOR PENETRATION (AP)        DAMAGE VALUE (DV)            AVERAGE DV        FIRING MODES      AMMO
Buzzer                             —                         nanoswarm                  —                 SS             3
Freezer                            —                        incapacitation              —                 SA            20
Shard                              –10                        1d10 + 6                  11             SA, BF, FA       100
Shredder                           –10                        2d10 + 5                  16             SA, BF, FA       100
Sprayer                      as chemical/drug           as chemical/drug         as chemical/drug         SA            20
Torch                              –4                           3d10                    16                SS            20
%%% 343.txt %%%
 shielded and surge-protected, this has no major                remain in effect for 1 full minute. Anyone in the area
 damaging effect. Antennas, however, are vulnerable,            of effect suffers a –30 action modifier, which reduces
 especially finer wires like those used with mesh inserts.      by 10 per Action Turn after they leave the area. Ad-
 As a result, the primary effect of EMP is to disable           ditionally, anyone facing the direction of the overload
 radio communications—every radio within range of               round suffers a –10 glare modifier (neutralized by
 the blast is reduced to 1/10th the normal range. The           anti-glare systems). [Moderate]
 base blast radius for EMP is 50 meters. [High]                    Plasmaburst: Also called “hellballs,” these muni-
    Frag: Fragmentation explosives spread a cloud of            tions release a burst of plasma upon detonation that
 lethal flechettes over the area of effect. They are re-        causes searing heat and fire damage across the area of
 sisted with kinetic armor. [Moderate]                          effect without the devastating shockwaves of explo-
    Gas/Smoke: Gas/smoke munitions emit a cloud of              sions that might rebound in an enclosed environment
 their contained substance. Smoke impedes sight by              and/or breach a habitat's infrastructure. [High]
 releasing thick fumes upon ignition of the seeker. The            Splash: Splash rounds spread a contained substance
 smoke can be of any color and is often heated (called          (drug, chemical, nanoswarm, paint) over a base 10-
 thermal smoke) to obfuscate heat signatures moving             meter blast radius when they detonate. [Low plus
 through the smoke as cover. Note that gases dissipate          payload cost]
 much more quickly under certain environmental con-                Thermobaric: Thermobaric grenades and seekers
 ditions (wind, rain, etc.) [Low]                               utilize a more deadly form of explosion. When they
    High-Explosive: High-explosive seekers and gre-             detonate, they disperse a cloud of aerosol explosive
 nades are designed to create a very destructive shock          over an area and then ignite, literally setting the air
 and heat wave. This damage is resisted with energy             on fire, generating a devastating pressure wave, and
 armor. [Moderate]                                              sucking the oxygen out of the area. Thermobarics use
    High-Explosive Armor-Piercing (HEAP): A design              the rules for uniform blast (p. 194). [High]
 only available for seekers (not grenades), HEAP
 warheads use high explosives to blast a path for               STICKY GRENADES
 a penetrating round. HEAPs lose –4 damage per                  Sticky grenades have a special coating that when trig-
 meter distance from the blast, as opposed to the               gered becomes a sticky adhesive, allowing the grenade
 usual –2. [Moderate]                                           to be stuck to almost any surface. Sticky grenades can
    Overload: Overload grenades and seekers launch an           even be wielded in melee combat, smacking them on
 all-out assault on the target's sensory spectrum. This         an opponent to be detonated later. [Trivial]
 attack includes blinding by intense flashing light, a
 deafening thunderclap followed by intense ultrasonic           EXOTIC RANGED WEAPONS
 screaming, nausea-inducing malodorants, and infra-             These weapons are either rare or distinctly separate
 sonic frequencies that can trigger unpleasant emotion-         from other weapons types. These weapons are wielded
 al responses (anxiety, uneasiness, extreme sorrow, ner-        with an Exotic Ranged Weapon skill of the appropri-
 vous feelings of revulsion or fear). For an extra kick,        ate field.
 overloads are also packed with “stingballs”—rubber                Vortex Ring Gun: This less-lethal two-handed
 pellets that inflict pain when detonated near an under-        weapon detonates a blank cartridge and accelerates
 armored target. Anyone caught in the base 10-meter             the explosive pressure down a widening barrel so that
 blast radius must make a SOM + WIL Test. If they fail,         it develops into a high-speed vortex ring—a spinning,
 they must immediately leave the area of effect. If they        donut-shaped blast vortex. This concussive blast is
 fail with an MoF of 30+, they are incapacitated for            used to knock down and incapacitate close-range
 3 Action Turns with disorientation and/or vomiting,            targets. Struck targets suffer a –10 action modifier for
 after which they must roll again. Overload munitions           the rest of that Action Turn and must must succeed in



                                      GRENADES AND SEEKERS
GRENADE/SEEKER TYPE                    AP                       DV             AVERAGE DV      ARMOR USED TO RESIST
Concussion                              —                    1d10 ÷ 2                5                     E
Frag                                    –4                   3d10 + 6               22                     K
EMP                                     —                       —                   —                     —
Gas/Smoke                               —                       —                   —                     —
High-Explosive                          —                    3d10 + 10              26                     E
HEAP                                    –8                   3d10 + 12              28                     K
Overload                             (AV x 2)                1d10 ÷ 2                5                     K
Plasmaburst                             –6                   3d10 + 10              26                     E
Splash                                  —                       —                   —                     —
Thermobaric                            –10                   3d10 + 5               21                     E
%%% 344.txt %%%
a SOM x 2 Test or fall down. If their MoF is 30+, they
are additionally stunned and unable to act until the
end of the next Action Turn. Drugs, chemicals, and
similar agents may be loaded into the charge as well.
[Moderate]

WEAPON ACCESSORIES
The following accessories are available for various
weapons.
   Arm Slide: This slide-mount can hold a pistol-
sized weapon under a character's sleeve, pushing the
weapon into the character's hand with an electronic
signal or specific sequence of arm movements. [Low]
   Extended Magazine: This ammunition case has
an increased capacity. Increase the weapon's ammo
capacity by +50%. Only available for firearms and
seekers. [Low]
   Gyromount: This weapon harness features a gyro-
stabilized weapon mount that keeps the weapon steady.
Negates all modifiers from movement. [Moderate]
   Imaging Scope: Imaging scopes attach to the top of
the weapon and act like specs (p. 325). Scopes may
also bend like a periscope, along a character to point
the weapon and target around corners without leav-
ing cover. [Low]
   Flash Suppressor: This device obscures the muzzle
flash on firearms, applying a –10 modifier on Percep-
tion Tests to locate a firing weapon by its flash. [Low]
   Laser Sight: This underbarrel laser emits a beam
that places a glowing red dot on the target to assist
targeting. Apply a +10 modifier to Attack Tests (not
cumulative with a smartlink modifier). Laser sights
may also be used to paint a target for laser-guided
smart ammo or seekers. Infrared and ultraviolet lasers
are also available, so that the dot is only visible to
characters able to see in those spectrums. [Low]
   Safety System: A biometric (palmprint or voice-
print) or ego ID (p. 279) sensor is embedded in the
weapon, disabling it if anyone other than an autho-
rized user attempts to fire it. [Low]
   Shock Safety: Just like a safety system, except that
an unauthorized user is zapped with an electric shock.
Treat as a shock baton (p. 334). [Moderate]
   Silencer/Sound Suppressor: This barrel-mounted
accessory reduces the sound of a firearm's discharge.
Apply a –10 modifier on hearing-based Perception
Tests to hear or locate the gun's firing. [Moderate]
   Smartlink: A smartlink system connects the weapon
to the user's mesh inserts, placing a targeting bracket
in the character's field of vision and providing range
and targeting information. Apply a +10 modifier to
the Attack Test. Smartlinks also incorporate a micro-
camera that allows the user to see what the weapon
is pointed at, fire around corners, etc. Smartlinks also
allow certain other types of weapon system control,
such as changing flux ammo (p. 337) or programming
seeker trigger conditions (p. 199). [Moderate]
   Smart Magazine: A smart magazine allows the
character to pick and choose what ammo round will
be fired with each shot. This system leaves less room
for bullets, however, so reduce the weapon's ammu-
nition capacity by half (round up). Smart magazines
may be combined with extended magazines, in which
case ammo capacity is normal. [Moderate]
%%% 345.txt %%%
                                                                        Rocket Buggy: This vehicle is the most common
  ROBOTS AND VEHICLES                                                form of medium to long distance personal transport
 The following is a small selection of the many vehicles             on Luna, and is in common on most other moons
 in use in the solar system. Almost all of the vehicles              and large asteroids. On these airless worlds, a rocket
 in current use, including all of the vehicles listed here,          buggy can reach orbit and return or take a parabolic
 have built-in AIs capable of piloting the vehicle under             path to any destination on that moon in less than
 almost all circumstances. In most cases, passengers                 an hour. This vehicle is also regularly used to travel
 simply state their destination and the vehicle takes                between habitats that are less than 30,000 km apart.
 them there. Manual piloting is primarily used in                    The vehicle is pressurized, but is designed for short
 emergencies or by people who prefer the exotic thrill               duration travel only. The seats are relatively small
 of controlling their own vehicle.                                   and the life support system contains no provisions
   Rules for handling robots and vehicles are detailed               for recycling food or water and can only support the
 on p. 195. Any of these shells may be modified for use              passengers for an absolute maximum of 50 uncom-
 as a synthetic morph by adding a cyberbrain system                  fortable hours. Rockets buggies come equipped with
 (p. 300). Each of the shells listed here comes with a               headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
 puppet sock (p. 307) for remote-control operation.                  up to 250 km.
                                                                       A version of this vehicle is also used on both Mars
  AIRCRAFT                                                           and Titan, but here the frame has been modified to
 On Mars, Venus, and within large open-space habitats                act as a lifting body, and it has a top speed in the thin
 like O'Neil cylinders, aircraft of various kinds see regular        Martian atmosphere of 2,500 km/hour and a range
 use. This includes modern version of rotorcraft (helicop-           of 8,000 km on Mars. On Titan is has a top speed
 ters, autogyros, tilt-rotors), fixed-wing planes, and zep-          of 3,000 kph in the atmosphere, but it can also reach
 pelins and other lighter-than-air craft. These are typically        orbit. [Expensive]
 propelled by turbofan or jet engines, rotors, or vectored              Small Jet: Methane-powered jet planes are one of
 thrust. These vehicles are piloted with Pilot: Aircraft skill.      the most common forms of fast transport on Mars
    Microlight: This ultra-light personal aircraft is                and Venus. Similar planes are used on Titan, except
 not much more than a strut-based wing, an airframe,                 that they carry both liquid methane and liquid oxygen.
 and an electric propeller engine. They are ideal for                These jets range in size from huge vehicles the size of
 getting around inside large habitats with enclosed                  late 20th-century airliners to small planes designed to
 airspace. [Low]                                                     carry half a dozen passengers. All jets are made using
    Portable Plane: Powered by superconducting bat-                  smart materials, so that their wings and frames can
 teries and with an exceedingly small but powerful                   adapt to a wide range of speeds and altitudes. One
 electric motor, this light but durable propeller plane              common small jet has similar versions in use on Venus,
 is made of smart materials that allow it to be swiftly              Mars, and Titan, has a single jet engine and has a life
 folded up into a small portable package. Different ver-             support system capable of providing air for up to 100
 sions are designed for flight on Mars, Titan, or Venus,             hours. The Venusian and Martian versions both have
 each taking 10 minutes to assemble or disassemble.                  a top speed of 900 kph, a wingspan of 11 m, and a
 The Martian version unpacks into an airplane with a                 maximum range of 5,000 km. The version designed
 wingspan of 11 m with a top speed of 250 kph and a                  for Titan has a wingspan of 8 m, a top speed of 650
 cruising speed of 220 kph and a range of 1,300 km.                  kph, and a range of 4,000 km. Jets are equipped with
 The Venusian version has a wingspan of 9 m, a top                   headlights, radio boosters, and radar with a range of
 speed of 200 kph and a range of 1,000 km. The ver-                  up to 250 km. [Expensive]
 sion designed for use on Titan has a wingspan of 8
 m and has a top speed of 200 kph and a range of                     EXOSKELETONS
 2,000 km. In all versions, the two occupants ride in                Exoskeletons are powered mechatronic skeleton
 an inflatable and insulated pressurized bubble with a               frameworks worn by a person. Servo-hydraulic joints
 life support system capable of providing clean air and              allow the exoskeleton to be maneuvered by mimick-
 comfortable temperatures for 20 hours on Mars and                   ing the wearer's own movements, as well as enhanc-
 Venus, and 15 hours on Titan. [High]                                ing their strength. Exoskeletons may also be piloted


                                              VEHICLES—AIRCRAFT
                    PASSENGER                      MOVEMENT                                                        WOUND
AIRCRAFT             CAPACITY       HANDLING         RATE         MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
Microlight                1             +20            8/40           100              —              30              10
Portable Plane            2             +10             —           200–250           10/6            50              10
Rocket Buggy              4             –10            8/32        2,500–3,000        24/16           100             20
Small Jet                 6             +20             —           650-900           30/20           200             30
%%% 346.txt %%%
electronically. A character wearing an exoskeleton              Trike: The trike exoskeleton is a three-wheeled
(other than the trike or transporter) maneuvers as            personal motorcycle design, rather than a walker. It
normal, because the exoskeleton is like an extension          provides partial protection to the wearer with an
of their own body. A character jamming an exoskel-            Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with Pilot: Groundrcraft
eton remotely uses Pilot: Walker skill (except for the        skill. [Moderate]
trike and transporter).
   Battle Suit: The battle suit powered exoskel-              GROUNDCRAFT
eton features a military-grade fullerene armor shell          In Eclipse Phase, trains and bicycles remain the most
with flexible aerogel for thermal insulation and a            common form of ground transportation, especially on
diamond-hardened exterior designed to resist even             habitats. In larger habitats and on moons and planets,
potent ballistic and energy-based weapons. The suit           cycles and cars are used as well.
also enhances the wearer's strength and mobility, ap-            Cycle: Because of the high cost of enclosing a habi-
plying a +10 bonus to strength-based tests, inflicting        tat and providing life support, space is at a premium
an extra +1d10 damage and AP of –2 on melee at-               in all cities except some of the newest cities on Mars.
tacks, and doubling the distance by which the char-           As a result, there is rarely room for large roads or the
acter may jump. Battlesuits are completely sealed to          cars that once carpeted the roads of Earthly cities.
protect the wearer from environmental factors, and            Instead, the ubiquitous modern vehicle is the cycle,
fitted with life support features and a maker (p. 327)        which is designed to drive down narrow streets only a
capable of recycling all wastes and producing air             little wider than sidewalks in Earth cities.
for up to 48 hours and food and water indefinitely.              There are many different varieties of cycle. Some
Battle suits are equipped with each an ecto (p. 325),         have only a single wheel and are gyro-stabilized, but
a radio booster (p. 313), and sensors equal to specs          most have two wheels and resemble old Earth motor-
(see p. 325). These suits have an Armor Value of              cycles. In some, the driver and passenger are enclosed
18/18 (not cumulative with any other armor) and               by a streamlined pod. These vehicles are powered
protect the wearer from temperatures from –175 to             by superconducting batteries, have a range of 600
140 C. [Expensive]                                            km and a top speed of 120 kph, but must usually
   Exowalker: Exowalkers are minimal framework                drive more slowly in crowded streets. Cycles are all
exoskeletons, primarily designed to bolster the               equipped with radio boosters, headlights, and a por-
wearer's strength and movement. They provide a an             table radar sensor. Tires are solid state (not inflated),
Armor Value of 2/4, a +10 modifier to strength-based          or in some cases smart spokes capable of handling
tests, and double the distance by which the character         stairs. Some luxury versions have limited life-support
may jump. [Moderate]                                          in the small cabin, capable of providing air for the
   Hyperdense Exoskeleton: These powered exoskel-             passengers for up to 10 hours. [Moderate]
etons are larger (roughly twice human-sized) and built           Mars Buggy: One of the most ubiquitous vehicles
for heavy-use industrial purposes, such as handling           on Mars is the so-called Mars buggy, a four-wheeled
heavy/large objects. The wearer is partially encapsulated     vehicle with large balloon tires that is designed for
to protect them from debris and industrial accidents.         use both on roads and on almost any terrain. Mars
Hyperdense exoskeletons provide no movement bonus,            buggies can travel at speed of up to 110 kph on roads,
but provide a +30 bonus to strength-based tests and           90 kph over relatively flat terrain, and up to 40 kph
inflict an extra +3d10 damage and –5 AP on physical           on jagged and rocky terrain. They can maintain these
attacks. They have an Armor Value of 6/12. [Expensive]        speeds because smart materials in both the suspension
   Transporter: This exoskeleton framework includes           and the tires reshape themselves to adapt to uneven
a pair of vector-thrust turbofan engines, giving the          conditions and their nuclear batteries give them an
user flight capabilities in gravity and increased maneu-      effectively unlimited range. Most Mars buggies are
verability in zero-G. It provides partial protection to       enclosed but unpressurized. Similar vehicles are used
the wearer with an Armor Value of 2/4. Piloted with           on Luna and Titan, however, though the passenger
Pilot: Aircraft skill. [High]                                 compartments of these vehicles includes life support


                                    VEHICLES—EXOSKELETONS
                  PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT                                                      WOUND
AIRCRAFT           CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE       MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
Battlesuit              1             —            8/32          30             18/18           60              12
Exowalker               1             —            8/40          40              2/4            30              6
Hyperdense
                        1             —            8/20          30             6/12           100              20
Exoskeleton
Transporter             1            +10           8/40         200              2/4            50              10
Trike                   1            +10           8/40         120              2/4            50              10
%%% 347.txt %%%
 gear that provides the occupants with air for at least          they are not equipped to be sleeved into (though the
 100 hours. Buggies are powered by nuclear batteries             may be jammed; see p. 196). Any of these bots may
 and come in a variety of sizes, from small two-person           be modified for use as a synthetic morph, however, by
 buggies to large trucks. Mars buggies come equipped             adding a cyberbrain system (p. 300).
 with headlights, radio boosters, and a vehicle radar               Automech: Automechs are general purpose repair
 system. [High]                                                  drones, found just about everywhere. Each particular
                                                                 automech tends to specialize in a particular type of
 PERSONAL VEHICLES                                               repair work and so carries the appropriate tools and
 These one-person movement aids primarily are used in            AI skills, whether it be habitat waste recyclers, outer
 space, but do not count as spacecraft per se.                   hull integrity, or servitor systems. Standard automechs
   EVA Sled: This small sled uses air impellers to maneu-        are wheeled cubes with articulated limbs, though they
 ver in zero-G. It is commonly used to carry attached gear,      are also equipped with vectored-thrust drives for
 but may also pull along 1 human-sized morph. [Low]              zero-G work. [Moderate]
   Rocket Pack: This is a miniature metallic hydrogen               Creepy: Creepies are small crawler bots that come
 rocket that the wearer straps to their back, with two           in an eclectic variety of shapes and forms, from robo-
 rocket exhausts extending out to either side, away              squirrels to insectoids to bizarre and artsy mechanical
 from the wearer's body or legs. Biomorphs and pod               creatures. Creepies were originally designed as a sort of
 morphs can only safely use this vehicle when wear-              robotic pet, but they are commonly used as a general
 ing a vacuum suit or some garment that is similarly             purpose household minion, like a more beloved servi-
 heat resistant. Also, to prevent harm to the wearer, the        tor. Many people in fact wear a creepy on their person,
 thrust must be kept sufficiently low that it can only           dropping it to handle small tasks for them and letting it
 take off on Mars or moons with even lower gravity. A            crawl up and down and over their body. [Low]
 rocket pack can keep the wearer airborne for up to 15              Dr. Bot: These wheeled medical robots are designed
 minutes in Mars gravity, or 30 minutes on Luna, Titan,          to tend to and transport injured or sick people. They
 or any of the four large Jovian moons. On Mars, it              carry a healing vat (p. 326), a specialized pharmaceu-
 has a maximum speed of 700 kph. It can be used to               ticals maker, miscellaneous medical gear, and articu-
 reach orbit and land again on Luna, Titan, and other            lated arms for conducting remote surgery. [Moderate]
 similarly small bodies like the Jovian moons. Rocket               Dwarf: These large industrial bots are named not
 packs are equipped with radio boosters but no other             just for their primary use—mining, excavation, tun-
 sensors or communication devices. [Low]                         neling, and construction—but because the default
   Thruster Pack: Worn for EVA duties, this thruster             AIs they shipped with had a programmed tendency
 pack uses vectored thrust nozzles, allowing a charac-           to happily whistle as they worked. Dwarfs are quad-
 ter to maneuver in open space. This is not a jetpack            rapedal walkers, equipped with massive modular
 and does not produce enough thrust for atmospheric              industrial tools like boring drills, shovels, hydraulic
 movement. [Low]                                                 jacks, jackhammers, scooping arms, acid sprays, and
                                                                 so on. [Expensive]
 ROBOTS                                                             Gnat: Gnats are small rotorcraft camera/surveil-
 Robots are a common sight and accepted fact of daily            lance drones. Many people use gnats for personal
 life within Eclipse Phase. Numerous varieties exist,            lifelogging, while socialites and media use them to
 from robo-pets to mechanical workers to warbots.                capture the glamor or hottest news. [Low]
 If a job can be done more cheaply (and sometimes                   Guardian Angel: Similar to gnats, guardian angel ro-
 safely) by a bot, it usually is. The robots listed here         torcraft hover around their charges, keeping a watch-
 are not generally used as synthetic shells by transhu-          ful eye out to protect them from threats. [Moderate]
 man egos, often for cultural reasons (sleeving a case              Saucer: These disc-shaped drones are lightweight
 is bad enough, sleeving a creepy is just ... wrong), and        and quiet. They are typically launched by throwing


                 VEHICLES—GROUNDCRAFT, PERSONAL VEHICLES
                   PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT                                                       WOUND
GROUNDCRAFT         CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE        MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
Cycle                  1–3            +20           4/40          120             12/10           50              10
Mars Buggy             2–6            +10           8/32        40/90/110         30/20           150             30


PERSONAL           PASSENGER                    MOVEMENT                                                       WOUND
VEHICLES            CAPACITY      HANDLING        RATE        MAX VELOCITY       ARMOR       DURABILITY      THRESHOLD
EVA Sled                1             –30           4/16           16               5             40               8
Rocket Pack             1             –20            —            700             +5/+5           40               8
Thruster Pack           1             –10           4/20           40             +4/+4           30               6
%%% 348.txt %%%
 them like a frisbee, after which they propel themselves
 with an ionic drive (p. 310). Saucers make excellent
“eye in the sky” monitors and scouts. [Low]
    Servitor: Servitors are the most common robot,
 acting as cooks, janitors, universal helpers, movers,
 and personal aides. Every home has one, if not several.
 Servitors are intentionally built in non-humanoid
 forms so as not to confuse them with common
 synthmorphs and in order to defuse bad feelings at
 ordering them around. However, they all have some
 form of “face” to interact with, so as not to be too
 machine-like. [Low]
    Speck: Specks are tiny insectoid spy drones, 2.5 mm
 long and 2 mm wide, about the size of a small fruit fly.
They fly with tiny wings, carry a microbug, and are
 excellent for surveillance purposes or otherwise being
 a “speck on a wall.” Specks are difficult to notice (–30
 Perception modifier) and almost impossible to distin-
 guish from an actual insect. [Low]

 SPACECRAFT
 Though egocasting is a common method of personal
 transport and it's often easier to simply transmit the
 specifications for various goods and to allow nano-
 factories to create duplicates, spacecraft play an
 important role in the solar system, carrying both pas-
 sengers and valuable cargo. Both in terms of materials                        Spacecraft have few stats in Eclipse Phase, as they
 and propulsion, spacecraft in the post-Fall era are far                     are primarily handled as setting rather than vehicles.
 superior to the primitive vessels used in the 20th and                      Note also that no stats are given for spacecraft weap-
 early 21st centuries, but they are still based on the                       onry. It is highly recommended that space combat be
 same principles.                                                            handled as a plot device rather than a combat scene,
                                                                             given the extreme lethality and danger involved.


                                                     VEHICLES—ROBOTS
                                             MAX                                                   WOUND                    MOBILITY
ROBOT            MOVEMENT RATE             VELOCITY             ARMOR         DURABILITY         THRESHOLD                  SYSTEM
Automech                  4/8                   8                 4/4               30                 6              Wheeled/Vector-Thrust
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Electrical Sense, Extra Limbs (4), Headlights, Magnetic System, Radiation sense, Utilitool, misc. tools
Creepy                   4/12                   12                2/2               25                 5                Walker or Hopper
Enhancements: +5 COO, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Extra Limbs (2-8), Grip Pads
Dr. Bot                  4/16                   16                 —                40                 8                     Wheeled
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Enhanced Smell, Fabber, Fractal Digits, Healing Vat, Nanoscopic Vision
Dwarf                    4/12                   20               16/12             150                 30                     Walker
Enhancements: +10 SOM, Access Jacks, Extra Limbs (4), Industrial Armor, Radar, Sonar, misc. tools
Gnat                     8/40                   60                2/2               25                 5                      Rotor
Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Radar
Guardian Angel           8/40                   80               14/12              40                 8                      Rotor
Enhancements: +5 REF, 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Eelware, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Smell, Enhanced Vision,
               Lidar, Light Combat Armor, Neurachem, T-Ray Emitter
Saucer                   8/40                  200                2/2               25                 5                       Ionic
Enhancements: 360-Degree Vision, Access Jacks, Chameleon Skin, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Radar
Servitor                 4/20                   20                4/4               30                 6                Walker or Wheeled
Enhancements: Access Jacks, Extra Limbs (2-6)
Speck                     1/5                   5                  6                50                 10                Winged/Hopper
Enhancements: +5 REF, +5 COO, –10 SOM, Access Jacks, Grip Pads, Enhanced Hearing, Enhanced Vision, Synthetic Mask
%%% 349.txt %%%
If you absolutely must know the DV of a spacecraft
weapon, treat it as a a standard weapon with a DV
multiplier of x3 for small craft (fighters and shuttles),
x5 for medium craft, and x10 for larger craft.

SPACECRAFT PROPULSION
The most important part of any spacecraft is its engine,
and the most important features of any engine are
the exhaust velocity, which determines how much
fuel the rocket requires to reach a given speed, and
the engine's thrust, which determines how high the
acceleration can be. Any rocket that has a thrust of
less than approximately twice the gravity of a planet
or moon cannot take off from that planet or moon.
Sample thrusts and gravities are listed on the Escaping
Gravity Wells table, p. 346.
   Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket (HO): Though opti-
mized with improved engine design and light-weight
materials, these are essentially the same primitive
rockets that humanity used to first reach the moon
in the 20th century. These are rarely used and only
common with groups too poor or primitive to safely
manufacture metallic hydrogen.
   Metallic Hydrogen Rocket (MH): Metallic hydro-
gen is a solid form of hydrogen created using exceed-
ingly high pressures. Although naturally unstable, it
can be stabilized with carefully controlled electrical
and magnetic fields, and these field generators are
an integral part of every metallic hydrogen fuel tank.
By selectively reducing these fields near the exhaust
nozzle, small amounts of metallic hydrogen can be
made to swiftly and explosively revert to conventional
hydrogen gas, propelling the rocket with great force


        ESCAPING GRAVITY WELLS
SPACECRAFT ENGINE                    THRUST (IN GS)
Hydrogen-Oxygen Rocket                      4+
Metallic Hydrogen                            3
Plasma Rocket                              0.01
Fusion Rocket                              0.05
Anti-Matter                                 0.2
Rocket Buggy                                0.5
Planets, Moons, Etc.                     Gravity
Earth                                        1
Europa                                     0.13
Jupiter                                    2.53
Luna                                       0.17
Mars                                       0.38
Mercury                                    0.38
Neptune                                    1.14
Pluto                                      0.06
Saturn                                     0.91
Titan                                      0.14
Uranus                                     0.89
Venus                                       0.9
in an easily controlled fashion. Metallic hydrogen
engines are used in most planetary landers and short
range vehicles.
   Plasma Rocket (P): This drive heats hydrogen into
plasma and accelerates it using a powerful electrical
field. This type of rocket was very common in the
mid 21st century, but has been superseded by fusion
rockets and is only used in older and more primitive
spacecraft, notably scum barges.
   Fusion Rocket (F): Similar to a plasma rockets,
fusion rockets require significantly higher tempera-
tures and pressures, and the rocket also produces
large amounts of power for the spacecraft. Fusion
rockets are now the most common form of propul-
sion for spacecraft designed for long-distance voyages.
   Anti-Matter Rocket (AM): Anti-matter rockets
work mixing small amounts of anti-matter into the
hydrogen fuel, producing enormous amounts of
energy and an exceptionally fast and powerful ex-
haust. These rockets typically carry a heavily shielded
magnetically contained anti-matter storage vessel car-
rying a mass of anti-matter equal to 1% of the mass
of the hydrogen fuel used by the rocket. The magnetic
containment vessels needed to safely contain anti-
matter usually weight at least 10 times the mass of
the antimatter used.
   Though anti-matter storage is exceptionally safe,
the vast energy release possible if there was an ac-
cident means that anti-matter rockets are forbid-
den from coming closer than 25,000 km from any
inhabited planet or moon. Also, very few habitats
will allow an anti-matter rocket to dock with them,
and instead require the spacecraft to remain at least
10,000 km away and for all cargo and passengers to
be transferred using a small craft like a small LOTV.
Anti-matter is exceedingly expensive to produce and
so anti-matter rockets are only used in military vessels
and in fast couriers designed to carry critical cargoes
across the solar system in short periods of time.

SAMPLE SPACECRAFT
The following is a representative sample of the most
common type of spacecraft used in the solar system today.
   Bulk Carrier: This vessel is simply a standard
transport refitted to carry large amounts of cargo in
external cargo grapples. Used for carrying refined ores,
ice, and similar forms of large, useful, but low priority
cargos, bulk carriers transport large cargos at rela-
tively low velocities. They also offer an inexpensive,
reliable, and slow method for passengers to travel
from one habitat to another and are not infrequently
used by individuals who wish to disappear for a while.
Unlike the standard transport, the bulk carrier lacks
the rotating habitat pods.
   Courier: In a standard transport, a typical journey
from Luna to Mars requires approximately three
weeks, while a journey from Mars to Jupiter requires
approximately four months. This is sufficient for most
purposes, but occasionally characters need to take
themselves or sufficiently valuable cargoes across the
%%% 350.txt %%%
 solar system in a matter of days or weeks, instead of                suitable for travel both on and underwater. In addi-
 weeks or months.                                                     tion, it contains a small metallic hydrogen engine that
    Anti-matter drive fast couriers are vessels de-                   allow it to maneuver in space with an acceleration of
 signed for this specific purpose. This vessel can                    up to 0.1 G. GEVs have a Maximum Velocity of 200
 travel from Venus to Mars in a week and from                         (wheeled)/40 (walker)/60 (sea)/40 (submerged).
 Mars to Jupiter in a month. The fast courier is the                     The GEV also has a closed cycle life support system
 swiftest vessels currently made and is able to reach                 that can support up to 6 (fairly cramped) living
 at much as one half of one percent of the speed                      occupants for up to one month and limited electro-
 of light. To manage this, this spacecraft must also                  magnetic shielding against charged particle radiation.
 carry 6 tons of antimatter in a 100 ton magnetic                     All models are fitted with advanced AI piloting and
 containment vessel. In an emergency, this contain-                   navigation as well as limited self-repair capacity. In
 ment facility can be jettisoned.                                     addition, GEV's have an extensible airlock, a single
    Destroyer: One of the largest military spacecraft                 healing vat, several desktop CMs, and a variety of
 in common use, destroyers use an antimatter drive                    sensors, including both radar and telescopic full spec-
 holding 150 tons of antimatter in a 2,000-ton mag-                   trum cameras.
 netic containment vessel. This antimatter can also                      Large Lander and Orbit Transfer Vehicle (LLOTV):
 be used to provide the spacecraft's missiles with                    This common vehicle is used for transporting passen-
 anti-matter for devastatingly powerful anti-matter                   gers and cargo between a planet or moon and orbit
 warheads. This spacecraft is also armed with                         and for short distance transfers between habitats
 railguns, nuclear and high explosive missiles, and                   less than 100,000 km apart. This conical vehicle has
 point defense lasers.  In addition, all destroyers                   a curved heat shield on the base and smart material
 carry a contingent of 20 fighters.                                   landing legs and grapples so that it can rest securely
    Fighter: This small, short range military vessel is de-           on any stable terrain and link up with all forms of
 signed to be crewed by an infomorph or AI. If needed,                docking clamps. It comes in variants designed to use
 however, it can hold a single synthmorph or vaccum-                  either a hydrogen-oxygen chemical rocket or a me-
 adapted biomorph as a pilot. It carries 3 lasers and 2               tallic hydrogen rocket. The use of light-weight smart
 railguns mounted on small pods placed around the                     materials allows the interior to be easily and rapidly
 middle of ship that can fire in any direction. A single              reconfigured to accommodate different amounts of
 missile launcher is located in the nose of the fighter               fuel, passenger seats, and cargo space. LLOTVs that
 and typically holds 6 small high explosive missiles or               are not designed for planetary landing or which are
 tactical nuclear missiles (or even anti-matter missiles              designed only to land on airless moons are unstream-
 if facing high-threat targets).                                      lined and look considerably blockier.
    General Exploration Vehicle (GEV): A GEV is one                      LLOTVs come in two configurations: high or low
 of the standard vehicles used for exploration beyond                 velocity. High velocity configuration allows the vehicle
 the Pandora Gates. It is specifically designed to handle             to land and take off again on Venus or Earth without
 almost any environment. It is a boxy vehicle, 6 meters               refueling and for rapid transport between nearby
 long, 2.2 meters wide, and 2 meters high. It makes                   habitats. Low velocity configuration is designed to
 extensive use of smart matter in the lower part of the               land and take off again on Mars or various large
 chassis, and can create wheels or short legs (primar-                moons without refueling and for slower and more
 ily useful for exceedingly rough terrain). It can even               fuel efficient transport between nearby habitats. The
 produce limited hull streamlining and propulsion                     extensive use of smart materials in this vehicle means



                                          VEHICLES—SPACECRAFT
SPACECRAFT                     PASSENGER CAPACITY                 HANDLING      ARMOR        DURABILITY WOUND THRESHOLD
Bulk Carrier                              110                        —             20            750               150
Courier                                    13                        —             15            500               100
Destroyer                                  90                        —             30           2,000              500
Fighter                                    1                        +30            20            240                60
GEV                                        6                        –10            15            200                40
LLOTV (HO)               20 (high-velocity)/100 (low-velocity)      –10            20            800               160
LLOTV (MH)               250 (high-velocity)/350 (low-velocity)     –10            20            800               160
Scum Barge                              20,000                       —             20           1,500              150
SLOTV (HO)                 3 (high-velocity)/30 (low-velocity)      –10            20            400                80
SLOTV (MH)               70 (high-velocity)/100 (low-velocity)      –10            20            400                80
Standard Transport                        200                        —             20            750               150
%%% 351.txt %%%
that LLOTVs that use metallic hydrogen engines can
be easily converted between the high and low velocity
configurations, requiring less than a day in a well-
equipped maintenance facility. However, vessels using
hydrogen oxygen engines cannot be converted. Since
metallic hydrogen is a much more efficient propellant,
landers using it always include significant amounts of
extra propellant for emergencies.
   Scum Barge: These huge craft were originally de-
signed for use during the first stages of the evacuation
of Earth. They were built to carry up to 20,000 people
and to allow them to survive for months or even years,
in relatively cramped conditions, until more suitable
habitats could be constructed. A number of these ves-
sels are still in service, primarily used as mobile habi-
tats by various anarchic subcultures. The best have
had their plasma rockets replaced by modern fusion
rockets and carry 5-10,000 in relative comfort. The
worst use aging plasma rockets and stretch their life
support systems and living spaces to the limit, carry-
ing up to 25,000 poor and desperate residents.
   Small Lander and Orbit Transfer Vehicle (SLOTV):
This vehicle is identical in use and design to the
LLOTV, except that it is one third the total mass and
correspondingly less expensive to build and refuel.
Some exceptionally wealthy individuals own private
small LOTVs. Using a small LOTV with a hydrogen-
oxygen engine to take off and land on Venus or for
other high velocity uses is exceptionally cramped
and allows for absolutely no room for error. Like the
LLOTV, this vehicle can be easily converted between
low and high velocity configurations and is made in
both streamlined and non-streamlined versions.
   Standard Transport: This vessel is one of the most
common freighter and passenger vessel in the solar
system. While egocasting is by far the most common
form of inter-habitat transport, some people prefer to
travel by ship and others do not wish to leave their
current morph behind. In addition, some goods are
easier or cheaper to physically transport rather than
duplicating their templates. As a result, standard
transports regularly travel to and from every large
habitat and inhabited planet and moon in the solar
system. These are modern fusion-drive ships that offer
fast and comfortable travel for passengers as well as
relatively swift transport for small cargoes.
   One of the additional benefits of the standard
transport is the fact that it contains four separate pas-
senger compartments, each of which is mounted on
a 90 meter-long booms that can extend and rotate
to simulate gravity. When rotating at a comfortable 2
rpm, passengers experience Mars level gravity. Typi-
cally, the gravity maintained in these pods starts at
the local gravity (or Mars gravity, if the local gravity
is higher) and over the course of the journey gradually
increases or decreases to the gravity of the destination.
However, these pods cannot rotate to produce gravity
higher than that found on Mars.
