%%% 238.txt %%%
 ESH■THE MESH■THE MESH■THE MESH



MESH
   Before the Fall, humanity interfaced with each other
   through the internet, interconnected networks that
   served as the technical backbone for the evolv-
   ing world wide web. While it began as a electronic
   medium for retrieving information from various
   sources (replacing even older paper-based info-
   sources), succeeding generations emphasized digital
   communities and hosted services such as networking
   sites, wikis, blogs, and folksonomies. These facili-
   tated openness, collaboration, and sharing, thereby
   laying the groundwork for a modern, interconnected
   information society. Further stages emphasized wire-
   less interaction, geolocation, and semantic web ap-
   proaches and achieved quantum leaps in the realm
   of user interaction with the advent of brain-computer
   interfaces, augmented reality (AR), virtual reality
   (VR), and experience playback (XP).
      This environment, coupled with the exponential
   growth of processing power and memory storage, cre-
   ated an evolutionary path for the development of intel-
   ligent agents—designed to augment human informa-
   tion processing—that then transformed into artificial
   intelligences (AIs) in the following decades. While these
  “weak” AIs did not possess the full range of human
   cognitive abilities, tended towards overspecialization,
   and were restrained by programmed limitations, the
   digital evolution toward artificial general intelligences
   (AGIs)—”strong” AIs with intelligence capabilities
   that equaled or exceeded human abilities—could not
   be halted. From this point it was but a matter of time
   before so-called seed AI would come into existence,
   machine minds capable of recursive self-improvement,
   leading to an exponential growth in intelligence. Un-
   fortunately for humanity, the TITANs were the result.
      Even before the Fall, however, the internet of old
   was transforming into something new. Instead of con-
   necting via central servers, users were wirelessly link-
   ing to each other, creating a decentralized intermeshed
   network of handheld devices, personal computers,
   robots, and electronic devices. Users were online all of
   the time and connected with everything and everyone
   around them in a ubiquitous computing environment.
  This was especially true of those participating in
   humanity's expansion into space. Disconnected from
   the internet due to distance and light-speed commu-
   nication lags, these users were nevertheless connected
   with all of the people and objects in their nearby
   environment or habitat, creating local wireless mesh
   networks. Thus was the mesh born, taking the place
   of the old internet of earth, lost during the Fall.



  MESH CAPABILITIES
  The mesh, as it exists in Eclipse Phase, is only possible
  thanks to major developments made in computer and
  communication technologies and nanofabrication.
HE MESH■THE MESH■THE MESH■THE
                 THE MESH■THE
                     MESH■

                                                             6


 Wireless radio transmitters and receivers are so unob-
 trusively tiny that they can literally be factored into
 anything. As a result, everything is computerized and
 connected, or at least tagged with a radio frequency
 ID (RFID) chip. Even food is tagged with edible chips,
 complete with expiration date and nutritional content.
 Other communications mediums, such as laser and
 microwave links, add to the information flow.
    Data storage technology has advanced to such high
 levels that even an individual user's surplus storage
 capacity can maintain an amount of information
 easily surpassing the entire 20th-century internet.
 Lifeloggers can literally record every moment of their
 life and never fear about running out of room. The
 amount of data that people carry around in the mesh
 inserts in their head or in portable ecto personal com-
 puters is staggering.
    Processing capabilities also exist at hyper-efficient
 levels. Even massive supercomputers are a thing of the
 past when modest handheld devices can fulfill almost
 all of your needs, even while simultaneously running a
 personal AI assistant, downloading media, uploading
 porn, and scanning thousands of newsfeeds. Within
 the mesh network, devices that near their processing
 limits simply share the burden with devices around
 them, creating a massively distributed framework that
 in some ways is like an entire supercomputer to itself,
 shared by everyone.
    Similarly, transmission capacity now far exceeds
 most citizens' definition of need. Anyone born within
 the last several generations has always lived in a world
 in which hyper-realistic, multi-sensory media of nearly
 any length is available for instantaneous download
 or upload from anywhere. Massive databases and
 archives are copied back and forth with ease. Band-
 width is such a non-issue that most people forget it ever
 was. In fact, given the sheer amount of data available,
 finding the information or media you're looking for
 takes considerably longer than downloading it. The
 mesh is also never down. As a decentralized network,
 if any one device is taken offline, connections merely
 route around it, finding a path via the thousands if not
 millions of available nodes. Similarly, the entire mesh
 behaves like a peer-to-peer network, so that large trans-
 fers are broken into manageable chunks that take inde-
 pendent routes. In fact, most users maintain personal
 torrent archives that are publicly accessible and shared.
    Private networks still exist, of course. Some are
 physically walled away behind closed-access wired net-
 works or even wireless-inhibiting infrastructure that
 keep a network isolated and contained. Most, however,
 operate on top of the public mesh, using encrypted
 tunneling protocols that provide private and secure
 communications over unsecured networks. In other
 words, these private networks are part of the mesh
 along with everything else, but only the participants
%%% 239.txt %%%
SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: ECTO(-LINK)
                A very popular brand of mobile mul-       tools, a mesh browser, locator, social-    be molded and shaped into different
                tifunctional personal digital assistant   izing programs (messenger, socnet          forms due to smart material construc-
                before the Fall, the ecto name became     updater), cartography and naviga-          tion. They are often worn as jewelry or
                a synonym for handheld personal           tion software, language translation        clothing accessories, particularly brace-
                computers in the Mesh Age. Standard       software, and similar software tools.      lets. The user interface varies according
                implanted computers are also some-        OS designs are highly customizable,        to user preference. Wireless-enabled
                times referred to as endos to reflect     allowing plug-and-use add-ons for          contacts and earbuds equip users who
                the difference between an external        whatever additional software and           lack mesh implants, enabling them to
                and an internal device.                   gadgets are desired. Typically, the        experience augmented reality and the
                   No matter if ecto or endo, modern      user's muse (personal AI assistant)        ecto's AR control interface. Standard
                computers are governed by an oper-        facilitates software interactions.         entoptic control interfaces are also
             ECTO(-LINK)
                ating system (OS), a multifunctional         The ecto itself is typically the size   available via wireless radio, skinlink,
                suite of programs that includes media     of 20th-century credit card and can        and direct fiberoptic line.




 can interact with them thanks to encryption, user au-                   overlaid on the user's physical senses. In a similar
 thentication, and message integrity checking.                           vein, the mesh inserts installed in synthmorphs and
   With the factionalization of transhumanity, at-                       pods are directly integrated with their cyberbrains
 tempts to unify software into standard formats have                     (creating a potential security concern as cyberbrains
 still failed. However, different operating systems                      are vulnerable to hacking).
 or protocols are rarely an obstacle anymore due to                         External devices called ectos (p. 325) are also
 easily accessible conversion tools and AI-aided com-                    used to access the mesh, though these are growing
 patibility oversight.                                                   increasingly rare given the prevalence of mesh inserts.
                                                                         Ecto interface options include haptic interfaces like
 MESHING TECHNOLOGIES                                                    touch-display controls, bracelets or gloves that detect
 Almost all biomorphs in the solar system are equipped                   arm, hand, or finger movements (virtual mouse and
 with basic mesh inserts (p. 300)—implanted personal                     keyboards), eye tracking and blink control, body
 computers. These implants are grown in the brain via                    scanning grids (body axis control or all-limb controls
 non-intrusive nanosurgery. The processor, wireless                      for non-humanoids), voice controls, and more. Sen-
 transceiver, storage devices, and other components                      sory information is handled via lenses, glasses, ear-
 are directly wired to the user's cerebral neuronal cells                plugs (subdermal bone-vibrating speakers), bodysuits,
 and cortical centers responsible for language, speech,                  gloves, nose plugs, tongue dams, and other devices
 and visual perception among others. Thought-to-                         that are wirelessly linked to (or physically plugged
 communication emulations (so called transducing)                        into) the ecto.
 enables the user to control the implant just by think-
 ing and to communicate without vocalizing. Input                        INFORMATION OVERLOAD
 from the mesh inserts is transmitted directly into the                 The mesh contains massive amounts of personal and
 brain and sometimes perceived as augmented reality,                    public information shared by users, a digital commons




   LEGACY OF THE TITANs
   Given the technical capabilities of modern personal computers, supercomputers and cutting-edge wired
   broadband are not needed. But there is another reason they are avoided: the TITANs.
     Mainframes, hive-mind clusters, and massively parallel distributed computing parallel hive-mind systems
   are all considered potential dangers in Eclipse Phase, as they possess sufficient processing power and data
   capacity to enable a seed AI and another potential hard takeoff singularity. Some habitats go so far as to
   outlaw such systems completely under the severest of penalties: final death including the deletion of all
   backups and recent forks, in most cases.
     Those supercomputers that habitats do allow are “hard networks” that control a habitat's most crucial
   systems like orbit maintenance thrusters, life support, communications, power, or cutting-edge hypercorp
   R&D projects. These systems are typically physically wired, heavily monitored, and locked down in electronic
   data processing centers with strong access restrictions and ruthless real-world security measures.
     Similarly, AIs themselves are quite often heavily restricted, and it is not unusual for AGIs to be outright
   banned, especially in the inner system and Jovian Republic. Most intelligent programs are limited with
   programmed growth restraints, specifically designed to prevent them from becoming self-upgrading.           ■
%%% 240.txt %%%
of news, media, discourse, knowledge, environmental
data, business, and culture. Transhumans embrace
the mesh as a tool for exchange, communication,
and participation with other users, both local and far
away. As such, the mesh is an up-to-date, authoritative
source on all transhuman knowledge and activities.
   Not everything online is available for free, of course,
except perhaps in the autonomist zones. Quite a bit of
proprietary data is kept off the grid in secure storage
or sequestered away in private networks. Some of this
is for sale, and heavily encumbered with digital restric-
tions—software, media, nanofabrication blueprints,
skillsofts, etc. A thriving open source movement offers
free and open source alternatives to much proprietary
data, however, and numerous digital piracy groups
deal out cracked versions of proprietary material,
despite pressure from some authorities. Other data is
simply secured from competitive interests (hypercorp
research projects) or is an extremely private affair,
such as ego backups.

SPIMES
Along with the accumulated data of transhuman
affairs, the mesh is also cluttered with information
derived from untold numbers of wireless-capable sen-
sor-enabled devices that continuously update the mesh
with their location, sensor recordings, and other data.
Colloquially called “spimes,” these location-aware,
environment-aware, self-logging, self-documenting
objects broadcast their data to anyone who cares to
listen. Since visual, auditory, and other sensors are
absurdly tiny and inexpensive, they are ubiquitously
incorporated into nearly every object or product a
person might wear, apply, use, or internalize. This
allows almost any user to reach out through the mesh
and gather environmental data and ambient sensor
recordings from a specific location (or at least public
locales—private areas typically block such signals or
slave them to a local AI that filters their output).

SURVEILLANCE, PRIVACY, AND SOUSVEILLANCE
While spimes are easily trackable, they also con-
tribute to an environment of universal surveillance.
Between spimes, microsensors, ubiquitous security
systems, and the recording capabilities of the mesh
inserts used by almost everyone, just about every-
thing is recorded. Factor in the availability of mesh-
tracking, facial recognition, rep/social networks, and
other data mining software, and it rapidly becomes
clear that privacy is an outdated concept. Special
considerations must be embraced by anyone that
seeks to mask their identity or cover their movements.
Alternately, off-the-shelf looks common with some
morphs (especially synthmorphs and pods) allow a
user to blend in with the masses.
   Though in part this may seem an Orwellian sur-
veillance nightmare, the abundance of recording
tech actually works as “sousveillance” (watching
from below), serving a role in making everything
transparent and putting checks on abuses of power.
%%% 241.txt %%%
Authoritarian regimes tread carefully, as they are also
universally monitored, despite their attempts to con-
trol information flow. Many people also willing par-       INFORMATION AT
ticipate in this open “participatory panopticon.” With
nearly infinite storage capacity, dedicated lifeloggers    YOUR FINGERTIPS
record every moment of their lives and share it for        The following information is always available for m
others to experience.                                      mesh users in a normal habitat:

                                                           LOCAL CONDITIONS
INTERFACING: AR, VR, AND XP                                - Local maps showing your current location, annotated with
Mesh media is accessed using one of three protocols:         local features of personal interest (according to your perso
augmented reality (AR), virtual reality (VR), or expe-       preferences and filters) and your distance from them/direct
rience playback (XP).                                        to them. Details regarding private and restricted areas (gov
                                                             ment/hypercorp areas, maintenance/security infrastructure,
AUGMENTED REALITY                                            are usually not included.
 Most users perceive data from the mesh as aug-            - Current habitat life support (climate) conditions including
 mented reality—information overlaid on the user's           atmosphere composition, temperature.
 physical senses. For example, computer-generated
                                                           - Current solar system and habitat orbit maps with trajectory
 graphics will appear as translucent images, icons,
                                                             plots, communication delays.
 or text in the user's field of vision. While visual AR
                                                           - Local businesses/services, directions, and details.
 data—called entoptic data—is the most common,
 other senses may also be used. AR is not limited
 to visuals, however, and can also include acoustic        LOCAL MESH
 sounds and voices, odors, tastes, and even tactile        - Public search engines, databases, mesh sites, blogs, forums
 sensations. This sensory data is high-resolution and        archives, along with new content alerts.
 seemingly “real,” though it is usually presented as       - Syndicated public newsfeeds in a variety of formats, filtered
 something ghostly or otherwise artificial so as not         according to your preferences.
 to be confused with real-world interactions (and          - Sensor/spime (mostly audio-visual) feeds from any public a
 also to meet safety regulations).                           of the habitat.
   User interfaces are customized to the user's prefer-
                                                           - Private network resources (including tactical nets).
 ences and needs, both graphically and content-wise.
                                                           - Automatic searches for new online references to your nam
 Filters allow users to access the information they
                                                             and other subjects of interest.
 are interested in without needing to worry about
 extraneous data. While AR data is typically placed        - E-tags pertaining to local people, places, or things.
 in the user's normal field of vision, entoptics are not   - Facial/image recognition searches of public mesh/archives
 actually limited by this and may be viewed in the           match a photo/vid still.
“mind's eye.” Nevertheless, icons, windows and other
 interaction prompts can be layered, stacked, toggled,     PERSONAL INFORMATION
 hidden, or shifted out of the way if necessary to in-     - Morph status indicators (medical and/or mechanical): blood
 teract with the physical world.                             pressure, heart rate, temperature, white cell count, nutrient
                                                             levels, implant status and functionality, etc.
AVATARS                                                    - Location, functionality, sensor feeds, and status reports of y
Every mesh represents themselves online via a digi-
                                                             possessions (via sensors and transmitters in these possessi
tal avatar. Many people use digital representations
                                                           - Access to one's life-spanning personal audio-visual/XP arch
of themselves, whereas other prefer more iconic
designs. This may be an off-the-shelf look or a            - Access to one's life-spanning personal file archive (music, s
customized icon. Libraries of avatars may also be            ware, media, documents, etc.).
employed, enabling a user to switch their represen-        - Credit account status and transactions.
tation according to mood. Avatars are what other
users see when they deal with you online—i.e., how         SOCIAL NETWORKS
you are represented in AR. Most avatars are ani-           - Communications account status: calls, messages, files, etc.
mated and programmed to reflect the user's actual
                                                           - Reputation score and feedback.
mood and speech, so that the avatar seems to speak
                                                           - Social network status, friend updates.
and have emotions.
                                                           - Updated event calendar and alerts.
E-TAGS                                                     - The public social network profiles of those around you.
Entoptic tags are a way for people to “tag” a physical     - The location and status of those nearby and involved in the
person, place, or object with a piece of virtual data.       same AR games as you.
These e-tags are stored in networks local to the tagged
item, and move with the item if it changes location.
%%% 242.txt %%%
 E-tags are viewable in AR, and can hold almost any                               custom-themed skin and share it with visitors to make
 type of data, though short notes and pictures are the                            them feel more comfortable. Found a new music track
 most common. E-tags are often linked to particular                               that livens up your day? Share it with others around
 social networks or circles within that network, so that                          you, so they can nod to the same beat.
 people can leave notes, reviews, memorabilia media,                                Skinning can also be used for the opposite effect.
 and similar things for friends and colleagues.                                   Any undesired content of reality can be edited out,
                                                                                  veiled, or censored by modern software programs or
 SKINNING                                                                         muses that engage in real-time editing. Tired of look-
 Since reality can be overlaid with entoptics of hyper-                           ing at someone's face? Add them to your killfile, and
 real quality, modern users can “skin” their reality by                           you'll never have to acknowledge their presence again.
 modifying their perceptual input. Environments around                            AR censorware is also common in some communities
 them may be modified to fit their particular tastes or                           with strict religious or moral convictions.
 mood. Need your spirits boosted? Pull up a skin that
 makes it seems like your outdoors, with the sun shining                          VIRTUAL REALITY
 down, the sounds of gentle surf in the background, and                           Virtual reality overrides the user's physical senses and
 butterflies drifting lazily overhead. Pissed off? Be com-                        places them inside an entirely computer-generated
 forted as flames engulf the walls and thunder grumbles                           environment called a simulspace. While AR is used
 ominously in the distance. It is not uncommon for                                for all common day activities and interactions, VR is
 people to go about their day, accompanied by their own                           used mainly for recreation (gaming, virtual tourism,
 personal soundtrack that only they can hear. Even ol-                            escapism), socializing, meeting (when face-to-face
 factory and taste receptors can be artificially stimulated                       meetings are not possible), and training. Dedicated
 to experience sensations like the smell of roses, fresh air,                     networks with high-capacity information processing
 or freshly-baked pastries. While originally developed                            are required to render and run large and complex
 to make “space food” less distasteful and as a method                            hyper-real simulspaces with many users, and these
 to counter space-induced cabin fever for those that                              are often hard-wired for additional stability. Smaller
 weren't born in space, vast archives of aromas, tastes,                          simulspaces capable of hosting a smaller amount of
 and environments are available for download.                                     users can be run on a smaller distributed network of
    Skins do not need to be kept private, they may                                linked devices. Many infomorphs and AIs effectively
 also be shared with others via the mesh. Tired of                                reside within simulspaces, and some transhumans
 your cramped habitat cubicle? Decorate it with a                                 have sworn off the physical world altogether.




JABBER
       # Start Æther Jabber #                                                           worms and malware the TITANs concocted. Firewall went to
       # Active Members: 2 #                                                            great lengths to make sure that everyone had access to the
                                                                                        detection signatures and countermeasures—and we mean ev-
           1
             I have to tell you, after losing Kiri and Sal to that Exsurgent            eryone. They've been incorporated in almost every commercial
             infection, my team is a lot more worried about contracting the             and open source security software released in the past decade.
             virus from digital sources. Actually, I'd label them as paranoid.          Every habitat in the system—well, every one with a lick of
             I don't think they'll ever touch any salvaged electronics again            sense anyway—employs such measures in their chokepoints
             unless they're behind a zillion firewalls and the device is com-            and mesh infrastructure.
             pletely isolated and tested by a delta fork loaded with every
                                                                                      1
                                                                                        I sense a “but.”
             antiviral ware we can find first. Even then, they'd rather shoot it    2
                                                                                        Yes. The problem is that the Exsurgent virus and similar TITAN
             than access directly or hook it up to an important network. After          infowar worms are adaptive. They're intelligent. Even though
             seeing what the virus did to Sal, I don't blame them.                      we mostly eradicated them from our networks, new versions
       2
             In our line of work, paranoia can be healthy.                              periodically pop up, using some new trick to get past the
           1
             Sure, but it's also a pain in the ass. Security is always a trade-         Firewall scans and wreak havoc. Our warning and outbreak
             off. Firewall's gotta have something up its sleeve that I can pass         response system has it down to a science, and such instances
             along to the rest to put their guards at ease.                             are usually contained.
       2
             Yes ... and no. It's complicated.
                                                                                      1
                                                                                        Usually.
           1
             I don't see why. Do we have a way of detecting and killing this
                                                                                  2
                                                                                        Well, there's always the chance that variants are still skipping
             thing or not?                                                              around out there, under our radar. What's worse to contemplate,
                                                                                        though, is that we may get another major outbreak that spreads
       2
             Sort of.
                                                                                        to multiple habitats before we can contain it. That might get
           1
             You're killing me.
                                                                                        very, very bad, very, very quickly.
       2
             Look. Ever since the Fall, we've had measures in place to
             detect and counteract Exsurgent infections and all of the other
%%% 243.txt %%%
DEFYING NATURE'S LAWS
A plethora of simulspace environments are available,
ranging from simulations of real places to historical
recreations to fantastic worlds representing almost
every genre imaginable. All of these simulations are
bolstered by the fact that possible scenarios are not
bound by the laws of nature. The fundamental forces
of reality and nature, like gravitation, electromag-
netism, atmosphere, temperature, etc., are program-
mable in VR, allowing for environments that are
completely unnatural, such as escheresque simulspace
where gravity is relative to position. These domain
rules may be altered and manipulated according to
the whim of the designer.
  Time itself is an adjustable constant in VR, though
deviation from true time has its limits. So far, tran-
shuman designers have achieved time dilation up to
60 times faster or slower than real time (roughly one
minute equaling either one hour or one second). Time
slowdown is far more commonly used, granting more
time for simulspace recreational activities (more time,
more fun!), learning, or work (economically effective).
Time acceleration, on the other hand, is extremely
useful for making long distance travel through space
more tolerable.

ACCESSING SIMULSPACES
Most simulspaces can be accessed through the mesh
just like any other node. Since VR takes over the
user's sensorium, however, and sometimes involves
time perception dilation, users are cut off from other
mesh-delivered sensory input and interacting directly
with other nodes. Instead, outside mesh interactions
are routed through the simulspace's interface (mean-
ing that a character may browse the mesh, communi-
cate with others, etc. from inside a simulspace, if the
domain rules allow it).
   Since physical senses are overridden when a user
accesses VR, most people prefer to rest their body
in a safe and comfortable environment while in the
simulspace. Body-fitting cushions and couches help
users relax and keep them from cramping up or in-
juring themselves if they happen to thrash around.
In case of long-term virtual sojourns (for instance,
during space travel), morphs are normally retained
in tanks that sustain them in terms of nutrition and
oxygen. Many VR entertainment and game networks
offer dedicated and hardwired physical VR cafes
with private pods. Visitors rent a pod and physically
jack in, using either access jacks or an ultrasonic
trode net that reads and transmits brain patterns
when placed on the head.
  When accessing a simulspace, the user first enters
an electronic buffer “holding space” known as a
white room. Here the user chooses a customizable
avatar-like persona to represent them in the simul-
space, called a simulmorph. From this point, the user
immerses themself in the virtual reality environment,
effectively becoming their simulmorph.
EXPERIENCE PLAYBACK
Every morph with mesh inserts has the capability
to transmit or record their experiences, a form of
technology called experience playback, or XP. Since
the first programs were developed that provide a
simple interface to “snapshot” ones experiences, it
has become extremely popular to share XP with
friends and social networks, or with the online public
at large.
   The level of experiences depends on how much of
the recorded sensory perception is kept when the clip
is made. Full XP includes exteroceptive, interoceptive,
and emotive tracks. Exteroceptive tracks include the
traditional senses of sight, smell, hearing, touch, and
taste that process the outside world. Interoceptive
tracks include senses originating within the body, such
as balance, a sense of motion, pain, hunger and thirst,
and a general sense of the location of one's own body
parts. Emotive tracks include the whole spectrum of
emotions which can be aroused in a transhumans.
Due to the biological requirements (neuronal and
endocrine systems) of expressing emotions, hardcore
XP aficionados deem only the experience in and from
biomorphs as the real deal.



MESH USES
There are many reasons people use the mesh. The
foremost is communication: voice and video calls
(typically displaying avatars rather than actual
video), electronic messaging (e-mail, instant mes-
saging, microblogging), and file and data transfers.
Socializing is also key, handled via social and reputa-
tion networks, personal profiles, lifelogging, chats
and conferences (both AR and VR), and discussion
groups and forums. Information gathering is also
at the top, whether its browsing the popular Solar-
chive or other databases and directories, tapping
the latest newsfeeds, browsing mesh sites, tracking
your friends, taking lessons in VR, or looking up just
about anything conceivable. Recreation rounds out
the pack, covering everything from gaming (AR and
VR) to experiencing other people's lives (XP) to VR
tourism and club-hopping.

PERSONAL AREA NETWORKS
Since everything a person carries is meshed, most
people maintain personal area networks that route
all of these devices through their mesh inserts or ecto,
which acts as a hub. This is both a security measure,
ensuring they maintain control over their own acces-
sories, and a convenience factor, as it focuses all of the
controls in one place.

VIRTUAL PRIVATE NETWORKS
Virtual private networks (VPNs) are communica-
tions networks tunneled through the mesh, which
are dedicated for a specific group of people. The
primary use of VPNs is to create privacy and secu-
rity for its users, and so they typically use security
%%% 244.txt %%%
features such as ego authentication and public key
encryption. VPNs are regularly used to mesh mobile
offices into a corporate network or mesh people to-
gether who work on or contribute a certain project.
Other VPNs—particularly social networks and rep
networks—operate with minimal security features,
simply serving as a network of specific users within
the mesh and making it easier to keep in touch,
transfer information, make updates, and so on. Most
VPNs come as specialized software suites that run
custom environmental software that integrates into
the user's normal mesh interface and AR.

SOCIAL NETWORKS
Social networks are the fabric of the mesh, weaving
people together. They are the means by which most
people keep in contact with their friends, colleagues,
and allies, as well as current events, the latest trends,
new memes, and other developments in shared
interests. They are an exceptionally useful tool for
online research, getting favors, and meeting new
people. In some cases, they are useful for reaching
or mobilizing masses of people (as often illustrated
by anarchists and pranksters). There are thousands
of social networks, each serving different cultural
and professional interests and niches. Most social
networks allow users to feature a public profile to
the entire mesh and a private profile that only those
close to them can access.
  Reputation plays a vital part in social networks,
serving as a measure of each person's social capital.
Each person's reputation score is available for lookup,
along with any commentary posted by people who
favored or disfavored them and rebuttals by the user.
Many people automate their reputation interactions,
instructing their muse to automatically ping some-
one with a good review after a positive action and
to likewise provide negative feedback to people with
whom the interaction went poorly.

MOBILE OFFICES
Due to the lack of office space and the wireless ac-
cessibility of most information, most businesses
now operate virtually, with few or no fixed offices
or even assets. Instead, individuals have become their
own mobile office. Bit-pushers and bureaucrats like
hypercorp executives, clerical workers, accountants,
and researchers—as well as innovators like artists,
writers, engineers, and designers—work wherever
they want to.
  The most prominent example of this phenomenon
are the bankers of the Solaris hypercorp. Each em-
ployee acts as a mobile one-person banking office,
managing transactions via Solaris's robust VPN.
   On rare occasions, office environments are run
in simulspace with time dilation to maximize effi-
ciency. Since this requires the workers to access a
centralized wired network and leave their bodies
unattended while accessing simulspace, however, it
requires an extra level of physical security that is
typical only of some governmental installations and
corporate habitats.



ISLANDS IN THE NET
In the time of Eclipse Phase, information can become
outdated quite fast, and the accessibility of new infor-
mation depends on your location. It's easy to keep up-
to-date on your local habitat/city or planetary body,
but keeping current on events elsewhere is typically
reliant on the speed of light.
   If you happen to be in a station in the Kuiper Belt,
on the edge of the solar system 50 astronomical units
from the terrestrial inner planets, waiting on a mes-
sage from Mars, the signal carrying the message will
be roughly seven hours old when it reaches you. Of
course it will only reach you that fast if you are using
quantum farcast, which is only limited by the speed
of light (not to mention rare and expensive in most
habitats). If you are not using a quantum farcaster,
the signal may take even longer and is prone to in-
terference and noise, deteriorating the quality and
possibly losing some of the content, especially over
major distances. Whenever you start dealing with
communication between habitats, you have to factor
in the light-speed lag, the amount of time it takes
even the fastest transmission to reach you. This lag
works both ways, so trying to hold a conversation
with someone just 5 light-seconds away means that
you're waiting at least 10 seconds to get the reply
to whatever you just said. For this reason, AR and
VR communications are almost always conducted lo-
cally, while standard messaging is used for nonlocal
communications. For detailed discussions, it is often
simpler to send a fork of yourself (p. 273) to have the
conversation and then return.
  Quantum-entanglement communicators (p. 314)
are one solution to this light-speed lag, although a
burdensome and expensive one. QE comms allow
for faster-than-light communication to an entangled
communicator, though each transmission uses up a
precious amount of quantum-entangled bits, which
are in limited supply.
  Transmissions made between habitats almost
always occur via each station's massive data relays,
where they are then distributed into the local mesh.
This bottleneck is often used by authoritarian habitats
to monitor data transmissions and even filter or censor
certain public non-encrypted content. Some messages
are also prioritized over others, potentially meaning
further delays.
%%% 245.txt %%%
   The method of transmission between habitats also
sometimes matters. Radio and neutrino broadcasts
can be intercepted by anyone, whereas tight-beam
laser or microwave links are specifically used as a
point-to-point method that minimizes interception
and eavesdropping. The use of quantum farcasting
using neutrino systems is completely secure, however,
and is the most frequently-used intra-habitat link.
   What these lags, bottlenecks, and prioritizations
mean is that some news and data takes a particularly
long-time to trickle from one local mesh network to
another, passing slowly from habitat to habitat. This
means that there are always gradients of information
available to different local mesh networks, typically
depending on proximity and the importance of the
information. Some data even gets lost along the way,
never making it further than a habitat or two before
it is lost in the noise. The only way to retrieve such
information is to track it down to its source.

DARKCASTS
“Darkcasts” are ranged communications that go out-
 side of legal and approved channels. Since certain hab-
 itats have strict regulations on transmission content,
 forking, egocasting, infomorphs, muse abilities, and
AGI code, underworld groups like the ID crew profit
 by offering illegal data transmission services. Primarily
 used for censored data and banned content (like illegal
XPs or malware), local organized crime factions also
 often offer egocasting services complete with resleev-
 ing and leasable morphs, allowing egos that prefer
 discretion to enter or leave a habitat without drawing
 attention. Though such authorities hunt down these
 darkcast networks whenever they get a chance, many
 habitats have a sophisticated darkcast infrastructure
 that makes use of decoys, temporary communications
 lines, relays, and regular transmitter relocation—not
 to mention judicious bribing and blackmailing.
MESH ABUSES
As with all things, the mesh has its darker side. At
the basic level, this amounts to flamewar-starting
trolls, stalkers, or griefers whose intent is to mess
with others for a laugh. At the more organized level,
it expands to illicit or criminal enterprises that utilize
the mesh, such as selling black/snuff/porn XPs, ille-
gal software, pirated media, or even egos. The most
infamous threats—thanks both to the Fall and to
the continuous sensationalism applied by media and
stern authorities—are, of course, malware and hack-
ers. Given the capabilities of modern hackers and the
vulnerability of many habitats—where damage to life
support systems could kill thousands—the threat may
not be over-exaggerated.

HACKERS
Whether individuals who are genuinely interested
in exploring new technologies and seeking ways to
break them in order to make them better, hacktiv-
ists who utilize the mesh in order to undermine the
power of authorities, or “black hats” who seek to
circumvent network security for malicious or crimi-
nal intent, hackers are a permanent fixture of the
mesh. Unauthorized network break-ins, infiltration
of VPNs, muse subversion, cyberbrain hijacking, data
theft, cyber-extortion, identity fraud, denial of service
attacks, electronic warfare, spime hijacking, entoptic
vandalism—these are all common occurrences on the
mesh. Thanks to smart and adaptive exploit programs
and assisting muses, even a moderately skilled hacker
can be a threat.
   In order to counter hacking attempts, most people,
devices, and networks are protected by a mix of
access control routines, automated software intru-
sion prevention systems, encryption, and layered
firewalls, typically overseen by the user's muse who
plays the role of active defender. Extremely sensitive
%%% 246.txt %%%
systems—such as space traffic control, life support,
power systems, and hypercorporate research facili-
ties—are usually limited to isolated, tightly-controlled,
heavily-monitored, hard-wired networks to minimize
the risk of intrusion from snoopers and saboteurs.
various countermeasures may be applied against
such intruders, ranging from locking them out of the
system to tracking them back and counterhacking.

MALWARE
The number of worms, virii, and other malware pro-
grams that ripped through computer systems during
the Fall was staggering. Many of these were part of
the netwar systems prepared by old Earth nation-states
and corporations and unleashed on their enemies.
Others were products of the TITANs, subversive pro-
grams that even the best defenses had trouble stopping.
Even 10 years later, many of these are still reappearing,
brought back to life by the accessing of some long-
forgotten data cache or the accidental infection of a
scavenger mucking through old ruins. New ones pop
every day, of course, many of them programmed by
criminal hacker outfits, while others that enter circu-
lation are modifications and variations of suspected
TITAN designs, perhaps implying that certain parties
are intentionally tinkering with this code and releasing
it into the wild. Rumors and whispers circulate that
some of these TITAN worms are even more potent and
frightening than previously hinted at, with stunning
adaptive capabilities and intelligence. These rumors
are steadfastly denied by authority figures and security
experts ... who then quietly turn around and do their
best to ensure that their own networks remain safe.



AI S AND INFOLIFE
Self-aware helper programs were originally designed
and realized to augment transhuman cognitive abili-
ties. These specialized-focus AIs were then developed
into the more complete, independent digital conscious-
nesses known as AGIs. The further evolution of these
digital life forms into seed AIs unfortunately led to the
emergence of the TITANs and then the Fall. This cre-
ated a rift in transhuman society as fear and prejudice
turned popular opinion against unrestricted AGIs, an
attitude of mistrust that still lingers to this day.

AI S
The term AI is used to refer to narrow, limited-focus
AIs. These digital minds are expert programs with pro-
cessing capabilities equal to or even exceeding that of
a transhuman mind. Though they have a personality
matrix with individual identities and character, and
though they are (usually) conscious and self-aware,
their overall complexity and capabilities are limited.
The programmed skills and abilities of AIs are typi-
cally very specific in scope and aligned towards a par-
ticular function, such as piloting a vehicle, facilitating
mesh searches, or coordinating the functions of some
habitat sub-system. Some AIs, in fact, can only barely
be considered sapient, and their emotional program-
ming is usually narrow or non-existent.
  AIs have a number of built-in safety features and
programmed limitations. They must serve and obey the
instructions of authorized users within their normal
functioning parameters and (in the inner system at
least) must also obey the law. They lack self-interest
and self-initiative, though they have limited empathy
and may be programmed to anticipate the needs and
desires of users and pre-emptively take action on
their behalf. Perhaps most importantly, however, is
that their psychological programming is specifically
based on universal human modes of thought and an
understanding and support of transhuman goals
and interests. This is part of an initiative to engineer
so-called “friendly AIs,” who are programmed with
sympathy towards transhumanity and all life and seek
out their best interests.
   In most societies, basic AIs are considered “things”
or property rather than people and are accorded no
special rights.

MUSES
Muses are a specific type of AI designed to function
as a personal aide and companion. Most people in
Eclipse Phase have grown up with a muse at their
virtual side. Muses tend to have a bit more personality
and psychological programming than standard AIs and
over time they build up an extensive database of their
user's preferences, likes and dislikes, and personality
quirks so that they may more effectively be of service
and anticipate needs. Muses generally have names
and reside within the character's mesh inserts or ecto,
where they can manage the character's personal area
network, communications, data queries, and so on.

AGIS
AGIs are complete and fully operational digital con-
sciousnesses, self-aware and capable of intelligent
action at the same level as any transhuman. Most have
full autonomy and the capacity for self-improvement
by a processing similar to learning—a slow optimi-
zation and expansion of their code that features
programmed limitations to prevent it from achiev-
ing the self-upgrading capabilities of seed AIs. They
have more fully-rounded personalities and emotional/
empathic abilities than standard AIs, due in part to
a development process where they are literally raised
within a VR simulation analogous to the rearing of
transhuman children, and so are more fully socialized.
As a result, they have a fairly human outlook, though
some deviation is to be expected, and sometimes is
apparent in great degrees. Despite this attempt to hu-
manize AGIs, they do not have the same evolutionary
and biological origins that transhumans have, and so
their social responses, behavior, and goals are some-
times off-mark or decidedly different.
  AGIs bear the social stigma of their non-biological
origin and are often met with bias and mistrust. Some
habitats have even outlawed AGIs or subject them to
%%% 247.txt %%%
WHAT YOUR MUSE
CAN DO FOR YOU
- Make Research Tests to find information for you.
- Scan newsfeeds and mesh updates for keyword alerts.
- Monitor your mesh inserts/ecto/PAN and slaved devices
  for intrusion.
- Launch countermeasures against intruders.
- Teleoperate and command robots.
- Monitor your Rep score and alert you to drastic changes.
- Automatically provide feedback for other people's
  Rep scores.
- Run audio input through an online, real-time language
  translation system.
- Put you in privacy mode and/or proactively stealth your
  wireless signal.
- Falsify/fluctuate your mesh ID.
- Track people for you.
- Anticipate your needs and act accordingly, pre-empting
  your requests.                                         ■



  strict restrictions, forcing such infolife to hide their
  true natures or illegally darkcast to enter habitats or
  stations. AGI mind programming emulates transhu-
  man brain patterns sufficiently well that they can be
  sleeved into biomorphs if they choose.

  SEED AI
  Due to the capability for unlimited self-upgrading,
  seed AIs have the capacity to grow into god-like
  digital entities far beyond the level of transhumans
  or AGIs. They require massive processing power and
  are always increasing in complexity due to a continual
  metamorphosis of their code. Seed AIs are too com-
  plex to be downloaded into a physical morph, even
  a synthetic one. Even their forks require impressive
  processing environments, so doing so is rare. In fact,
  most seed AIs require the capacities of hard-wired
  networks to survive.
    The only seed AIs known to the public are the
  infamous TITANs who are widely regarded as being
  responsible for the Fall. In truth, the TITANs were
  not the first seed AIs and will probably not be the last.
  There are no publicly known TITANs (or other seed
  AIs) currently residing in the solar system, despite
  circulating rumors of damaged TITANs who were left
  behind on Earth, speculated TITAN activity under the
  clouds of Venus, or whispers of new seed AIs hidden
  away in secret networks on the edges of the system.

  TRANSHUMAN INFOMORPHS
  For thousands of infugees, embodying a digital form
  is their only choice. Some of these are locked away
  in mesh-separated virtual holding areas or even inac-
  tive storage, locked up by habitats who didn't have
   NON-STANDARD AIS
   AND AGIS
   Not all AIs and AGIs were programmed and de
   signed to adhere to human modes of thought
   and interests. Such creations are illegal in some
   jurisdictions, as they are considered a potential
   threat. Several hypercorps and other groups have
   initiated research into this field, however, with
   varying results. In some cases these digital minds
   are so different from human mindsets that com
   munication is is impossible. In others, enough
   crossover exists to allow limited communication
   but such entities are invariably quite strange.
      Rumors persist that some AIs began their
   life as transhuman backups or forks, who were
   then heavily edited and pruned down to AI
   level intelligences.                            ■



enough resources to handle them. Others are impris-
oned inside simulspaces, killing time in whatever way
they choose until an opportunity to resleeve comes
their way. Quite a few are free to roam the mesh, in-
teracting with physically-sleeved transhumans, keep-
ing up with current events, and sometimes even form-
ing activist political blocs to campaign for infomorph
rights or interests. Still others find or are forced into
virtual careers, slaving away in the digital sweatshops
of hypercorps or criminal syndicates. A few find com-
panions who are willing to bring them along in their
ghostrider module and become an integral part of
their lives, much like a muse.
   Some transhumans willingly choose the infomorph
lifestyle, either for hedonism (custom simulspace and
VR games until the end of time), escapism (loss of a
loved ones leads them to write off physical concerns
for awhile), freedom (go anywhere the mesh takes
you—some have even beamed copies of themselves to
far distant solar systems, hoping someone or something
will receive their signal when they arrive), experimen-
tation (forking and merging, running simulations, and
weirder things), or because it is ensured immortality.



EVERYDAY MESH MECHANICS
Everyone (and everything) is meshed in Eclipse Phase.
The following rules and concerns apply to standard
mesh use. Note that various mesh-related terms are
explained, along with other Eclipse Phase concepts,
under Terminology, p. 25.

MESH INTERFACE
Characters have a choice of which interface to use, the
entoptic interface of basic mesh inserts or the haptic
interface of an ecto.
  The basic mesh inserts used by most users allows
them to interact with AR, VR, XP, and the mesh at the
%%% 248.txt %%%
speed of thought. This is the default method of mesh
use and suffers no modifiers. They are, however, more
prone to visual and operative impairments (virtual il-
lusions, denial-of-service effects) when hacked.
  Characters who use the haptic interface of an ecto,
however, suffer a slight delay on their mesh activities
due to manual toggling, physical controls, and physi-
cal interaction with virtual controls. In game terms,
the use of haptics imposes a –10 skill modifier to
all mesh tests where timing is rushed (particularly
combat and or any sort of mesh use under pressure).
Additionally, increase the timeframe for mesh-based
Task Actions by +25% when interfacing via haptics.
On the positive side, ectos can be easily removed and
discarded if compromised—for this reason, many
hackers and security-conscious users use an ecto in
addition to their mesh inserts, routing all high-risk
traffic through the ecto as an extra line of defense.

MESH ID
Every mesh user (and, in fact, every device) has a
unique code called their mesh ID. This ID distin-
guishes them from all other users and devices, and is
the mechanism by which others can find them online,
like a combination phone number, email address, and
screen name. Mesh IDs are used in almost all online in-
teractions, which are often logged, meaning that your
activities online leave a datatrail that can be tracked
(p. 251). Fortunately for Firewall sentinels and others
who value their privacy, their are ways around this
(see Privacy and Anonymity, p. 252). AIs, AGIs, and
infomorphs also each have their own unique mesh ID.

ACCOUNTS AND ACCESS PRIVILEGES
Devices, networks (such as PANs, VPNs, and hard-
wired networks), and services require that every user
that accesses them does so with an account. The
account serves to identify that particular user, is
linked to their mesh ID, and determines what access
privileges they have on that system. There are four
types of accounts: public, user, security, and admin.

PUBLIC ACCOUNTS
Public accounts are used for systems that allow
access (or access to parts of their system) to anyone




  ELITE EXPLOITS
  The mesh gear quality rules allow for players
  and gamemasters to make a distinction between
  software tools, separating the open-source,
  stock-repertoire exploit tools of amateur hackers
  from cutting-edge military-grade penetration
  wares. While many characters will simply buy or
  otherwise acquire such programs, a hacker with
  the do-it-yourself ethic is likely going to want
  to design their own personalized applications,
  based on their playbook of closely-guarded in-
  trusion/counterintrusion methods.
     To reflect the efforts a hacker character makes
  by designing, coding, and modifying their own
  customized personal arsenals, they may make a
  Task Action Programming Test with timeframe
  of 2 weeks. If they succeed, they upgrade one
  of their software tools by one level of quality
  (i.e., from +0 to +10). Multiple Programming
  Tests can be made to enhance a program, but for
  each level add the target modifier as a negative
  modifier to the test (so upgrading a +0 suite to
  +10 is a –10 modifier on the Programming Test).
     Similarly, at the gamemaster's discretion, soft-
  ware tools—particularly exploits—may degrade
  in quality over time, reflecting that they have
  become outdated. As a general rule, such pro-
  grams should degrade in quality about once
  every 3 months.                                 ■
%%% 249.txt %%%
on the mesh. Public accounts do not require any sort
of authentication or login process, the user's mesh ID
is enough. These accounts are used to provide access
to any sort of data that is considered public: mesh
sites, forums, public archives, open databases, social
network profiles, etc. Public accounts usually have
the ability to read and download data, and some-
times to write data (forum comments, for example),
but little else.

USER ACCOUNTS
User accounts are the most common accounts. User
accounts require some form of authentication (p. 253)
to access the device, network, or service. Each user ac-
count has specific access privileges allotted to it, which
are tasks the user is allowed to perform on that system.
For example, most users are allowed to upload and
download data, change basic content, and use the
standard features of the system in question. They are
not, however, usually allowed to alter security features,
add new accounts, or do anything that might impact
the security or functioning of the system. As some sys-
tems are more restrictive than others, the gamemaster
decides what privileges each user account provides.

SECURITY ACCOUNTS
Security accounts are intended for users that need
greater rights and privileges than standard users, but
who don't need control over the entire system, such
as security hackers and muses. Security access rights
usually allow for reading logs, commanding security
features, adding/deleting accounts, altering the data of
other users, and so on.

ADMIN ACCOUNTS
Admin accounts provide complete control over the
system. Characters with admin rights can do every-
thing security accounts can, plus they can shut down/
reboot the system, alter access rights of other users,
view and edit all log files and statistics, and stop or
start any software available on the system.

MESH GEAR QUALITY
Not all gear is created equal, and this is especially true
of computers and software, where new innovations
are made on a daily basis. Keeping up-to-date with
the last specs isn't too difficult, but on occasion the


                                          MESH GEA
MODIFIER SOFTWARE/HARDWARE
   –30      Bashed-up devices, no-longer-supported software, re
   –20      Malfunctioning/inferior devices, buggy software, pre-
   –10      Outdated and low quality systems
    0       Standard ectos, mesh inserts, and software
   +10      High-quality goods, standard security-grade products
   +20      Next-generation devices, advanced software
   +30      Newly-developed, state-of-the-art, top-of-the-line te
  >+30      TITANs and/or alien technology
   characters will get their hands on some old relic or
   find themselves in secluded or decrepit places with
   local systems and gear that aren't up to date. Likewise,
   they may acquire some cutting-edge gear straight
   from the labs or may run up against a state-of-the-art
   installation with next-generation defenses. To reflect
   this, mesh tests can be modified according to the state
   of the hardware or software being used, as noted on
   the Mesh Gear Modifiers table
  .
   COMPUTER CAPABILITIES
   Computerized electronics can be broken down into
   three simple categories: peripherals, personal comput-
   ers, and servers. In game terms, all are collectively
   referred to as devices.

   PERIPHERALS
   Peripherals are micro-computerized devices that don't
   need the full processing power and storage capacity of
   a personal computer, but benefit from online network-
   ing and other computerized functions. Peripherals may
   run software, but the gamemaster may decide that too
   many programs (10+) will degrade the system's perfor-
   mance. AIs and infomorphs are incapable of running
   on peripherals, though they may access them. Peripher-
   als only have public and user accounts (users accounts
   include security and admin functions; see p. 247).
     Common peripherals include: spimes, appliances, most
   cybernetic implants, individual sensors, and weapons.

   PERSONAL COMPUTERS
   Personal computers account for a wide range of com-
   puter types, but essentially account for anything that
   has the capabilities evolved from generations and gen-
   erations of personal computers to meet an everyday
   user's needs. Most personal computers are portable
   and tailored for use by multiple users at a time. Per-
   sonal computers may run one AI or infomorph at a
   time. They may not run simulspace programs.
     Common personal computers include: mesh inserts,
   ectos, and vehicles.

   SERVERS
   Servers have much greater processing power and
   data management capabilities than personal comput-
   ers. They are capable of handling hundreds of users,
   multiple AIs and infomorphs, and they may run


MODIFIERS

rom Earth or the early expansion into space
echnology




logy
%%% 250.txt %%%
simulspace programs. Though few are portable, some
of them come close.

SOFTWARE
A wide manner of software is available for mesh users,
from firewalls and AIs to hacking and encryption tools
to tacnets and skillsofts. These programs are listed on
p. 331 of the Gear chapter. Like other gear, software
may enable a character to perform a task they could
not otherwise. The quality of the software may also be
a factor, applying a modifier as appropriate (see Mesh
Gear Quality, p. 247).
   Some software is equipped with digital restrictions
to prevent it from being copied and shared with others.
These restrictions may be defeated, but it is a time-con-
suming task, requiring a Task Action Programming Test
with a timeframe of 2 months. Thanks to the efforts
of the open source movement and numerous individual
software pirates, however, quite a bit of software is
available free or online. The availability of pirated soft-
ware or freeware will depend on the local habitat and
legalities. Finding it may be a matter of a simple search,
or it may require some use of reputation to find some-
one who has it. Usually there is at least one local crime
syndicate that is willing to help you out—for a price.

SOFTWARE COMPATIBILITY
In most instances, software compatibility is not going
to be an issue for characters. Gamemasters who like
it as a plot device, however, can introduce compat-
ibility problems in certain cases, whether this is done
to increase drama, slow the characters down, or create
obstacles that they must overcome. Such incompat-
ibilities are more likely to arise when dealing with
outdated systems or devices, or at least ones that are
unlikely to have the latest patches and software up-
dates. Incompatibilities can also be used as a drawback
to acquiring software from untrustworthy sources.
   Conflicting software issues are going to have one of
two effects. Either the software will simply not work
with certain devices, or it will inflict a –10 to –30
modifier due to instabilities and glitches. If the game-
master allows it, a character may reduce this penalty
by patching up the software, requiring a successful
Programming Task Action (1 day). For every 10 points
of MoS, reduce the incompatibility modifier by 10.

TRAFFIC FILTERS AND MIST
Mesh networks and AR are overrun with yottabytes of
information. Though mesh inserts and ectos can deal
with a lot of data traffic in terms of bandwidth and
processing power, using filters to weed out unwanted
traffic is quite simply a necessity. This is especially true
of AR, where unwanted entoptics can clutter your
vision and distract you. Nevertheless, entoptic spam of
many flavors—advertisements, political screeds, porn,
scams—do their best to bypass these filters, and in
many areas the amount of unfiltered entoptics can be
overwhelming—a phenomenon colloquially referred
to as “mist.”
  At the gamemaster's discretion, mist can interfere
with a user's sensory perceptions. This modifier can
range from –10 to –30, and in some cases might be
so distracting as to affect all of a character's actions.
To lift the data fog, a character or muse must adjust
their filter settings by succeeding in an Interfacing Test
modified by the mist modifier. Alternately, the charac-
ter can completely disable AR input, but this is likely
to impede them in other ways.

SLAVING DEVICES
   For ease of use, as well as for privacy and security
purposes, one or more devices may be slaved to each
other. One device (usually the character's mesh inserts
or ecto) takes the role of master, while the other
device(s) takes the role of slave. All traffic to and
from slaved devices is routed through the master. This
allows a slaved device to rely on the master's security
features and active monitoring. Anyone that wants to
connect to or hacked into a slaved device is rerouted
to the master for authentication and security scrutiny.
Slaved devices automatically accept commands from
their master device. This means that a hacker who
penetrates a master system can legitimately access
and issue commands to a slaved device, assuming their
access privileges allow for it.
   PANs are typically formed by slaving all of a char-
acter's devices to their ecto or mesh inserts. Similarly,
individual components of a security system (doors,
sensors, etc.) are usually slaved to a central security
node that serves as a chokepoint for anyone hoping
to hack the system. The same is often true for other
networks and facilities.

ISSUING COMMANDS
Characters may issue commands to any slaved device
or teleoperated bot (see Shell Remote Control, p. 196)
with a Quick Action. Each command counts separately,
unless the character is issuing the same command to
multiple devices/drones.

DISTANCE LAG
Anytime you extend your communications over great
distances, you run into the risk of time lags. Most
communications are restricted to “local” for this
reason, which generally means your local habitat
and any others within 50,000 kilometers. On plan-
etary bodies like Mars, Venus, Luna, or Titan, “local”
encompasses all of the habitats and linked mesh net-
works on that planetary body.
  If a character is searching the mesh beyond their
local area, the most efficient way is to transmit a search
AI (usually a copy of your muse) or a fork to the non-
local area, which will then run its search and return
completed results. This process does, however, add to
the time of transmission to the timeframe (i.e., search-
ing the mesh of a station 10 light-minutes away adds
20 minutes to the search as the search is transmitted
over and the results are transmitted back). Since long-
distance communications are sometimes interfered with
%%% 251.txt %%%
or bumped for higher-priority items, the gamemaster
can increase this time at their discretion. If the research
involves correlation and fine-tuning the search param-
eters based on data accumulated from different locals,
the timeframe may be exponentially increased due to
the need for back-and-forth interaction.
   If the character is simply communicating with or
accessing non-local networks, an appropriate time lag
must be introduced between communications and ac-
tions. The effects of this lag are largely up to the game-
master, as fitting current distances and other factors.

ACCESSING MULTIPLE DEVICES
Meshed characters may connect to and interact with
numerous devices, networks, and services simulta-
neously. There is no penalty for doing this, but the
character may only focus on one system at a time. In
other words, you may only interact with one system
at a time, though you may also switch between them
freely, even within the same Action Phase. You could,
for example, spend several Quick Actions to send a
message with your ecto, tell your spime oven at home
to start cooking dinner, and look up a friend's updated
profile on a social network. You may not, however,
hack into two separate systems simultaneously.
   Note that you may send the same command to
multiple slaved devices or teleoperated drones with
the same Quick Action, as noted above.



ONLINE RESEARCH
The Research skill (p. 184) represents a character's
ability to track down information in the mesh. Such
information includes any type of digitized data: text,
pictures, vids, XP, sensor feeds, raw data, software, etc.
This data is culled from all manner of sources: blogs,
archives, databases, directories, social networks, rep
networks, online services, forums, chat rooms, torrent
caches, and regular mesh sites of all kinds. Research
is conducted using various public and private search
engines, both general and specialized, as well as data
indices and search AIs.
   Research has other uses as well. Hackers use it
when looking for specific information on a network or
device on which they have intruded. Likewise, since
everyone inevitably uses and interacts with the mesh,
Research skill is also a way to identify, backtrack, and/
or gather information on people as long as they have
not hidden their identity, worked anonymously, or
covered their identity with a shroud of disinformation.

SEARCH CHALLENGES
Due to the sheer amount of data available, find-
ing what you're looking for may sometimes seem a
daunting task. Thankfully, information is fairly well
organized, thanks to the hard work of “spider” AIs
that cruise the mesh and constantly update data and
search indices. Additionally, information on the mesh
is tagged with semantics, meaning that it's presented
with code that allows a machine to understand the
context of that information as well as a human reader
would. This helps AIs and search software correlate
data more efficiently. So finding the data is usually not
as difficult as analyzing it and understanding it. Find-
ing specialized or hidden info or correlating data from
multiple sources is usually the real challenge.
  Perhaps a larger issue is the amount of incorrect data
and misinformation online. Some data is simply wrong
(mistakes happen) or outdated, but the nature of the
mesh means that such things can linger on for years
and even propagate far and wide as they are circulated
without fact-checking. Likewise, given the amount of



  SEARCH CAPABILITIES
  Online research in Eclipse Phase is not the same
  as just googling something. Here are five ways in
  which it is vastly improved:
     Pattern Recognition: Biometrics and other forms
  of pattern recognition are efficient and intelligent.
  It is not only possible to run image recognition
  searches (in real-time, via all available spimes
  and sensor feeds), but to search for patterns such
  as gait, sounds, colors, emotive displays, traffic,
  crowd movement, etc. Kinesics and behavioral
  analysis even allow sensor searches for people
  exhibiting certain behavioral patterns, such as sus-
  picious loitering, nervousness, or agitation.
     Metadata: Information and files online come
  with hidden data about their creation, alteration,
  and access. A photo's metadata, for example,
  will note what gear it was taken on, who took
  it, when, and where, as well as who accessed it
  online, though such metadata may be easily
  scrubbed or anonymized.
     Data Mash-Ups: The combination of abundant
  computing, archived data, and ubiquitous public
  sensors enable intriguing correlations to be
  drawn from data that is mined and collated. In
  the midst of a habitat emergency such as a ter-
  rorist bombing, for example, the ID of everyone
  in the vicinity could be scanned, compared to
  data archives to separate out those who have a
  history of being in the vicinity at that particular
  time, with those remaining checked against
  databases of criminal/suspect history and their
  recorded actions analyzed for unusual behavior.
     Translation: Real-time translation of audio and
  video is available from open source translation bots.
     Forecasting: A significant percentage of what
  people do on any day or in response to certain situ-
  ations conforms to routines, enabling easy behav-
  ioral prediction. Muses take advantage of this to
  anticipate needs and provide whatever is desired
  at the right moment and in the right context. The
  same logic applies to actions by groups of people,
  such as economics and social discourse, making pre-
  dictions markets a big deal in the inner system. ■
%%% 252.txt %%%
transparency in modern society, some entities actively
engage in disinformation spreading in order to clut-
ter the mesh with enough falsehoods that the truth is
hidden. Two factors help to combat this, the first being
that data sources themselves have their own reputation
scores, so that untrustworthy or disreputable sources
can be identified and ranked lower in search results.
Second, many archives take advantage of crowdsourc-
ing—that is, harnessing the collaborative power of
mesh users (and their muses) everywhere—to verify
data integrity so that these sites are dynamic and
self-correcting.

HANDLING SEARCHES
Online research is often a crucial element of Eclipse
Phase scenarios, as characters take to the mesh to
research backgrounds and uncover clues. The follow-
ing suggestions present a method of handling research
that does not rely solely on dice rolls and integrates it
with the flow of the plot.
   First, common and inconsequential information
should be immediately available without requiring
a roll at all. Most characters rely on their muses to
handle searches for them, passing on the results while
the character focuses on other things.
   For searches that are more detailed, difficult, or
central to the plot, a Research Test should be called
for (made either by the character or their muse).
This test indicates the process of finding links to
and/or accumulating all data that may in fact be
relevant to the search topic. This test should be
modified as appropriate to the obscurity of the topic,
ranging from +30 for common and public topics
to –30 for obscure or unusual intel. This initial
search has a timeframe of 1 minute. If successful, it
turns up enough data to give the character a basic
overview, perhaps with cursory details. The game-
master should use the MoS to determine the depth
of the data provided on this initial excursion, with
an Excellent Success providing some bonus details.
Similarly, a Severe Failure (MoF 30+) may result in
the character working with data that is incorrect or
intentionally misleading.
   The next step is not so much accumulating links
and data as it is analyzing and understanding the in-
formation acquired. This requires another Research
Test, again modified by the obscurity of the topic. If
the gamemaster allows it, complementary skills (p.
173) may apply to this test, providing bonus modi-
fiers (for example, an understanding of Academics:
Chemistry would help research the effects of a
strange drug). Muses may also perform this task,
though their skills are typically inferior. As above,
success determines the quality and depth of the
analysis, with an Excellent Success providing the full
story and potential related issues and a Severe Fail-
ure marking completely incorrect assumptions. The
timeframe for this phase of research largely depends
on two factors: the amount of data being analyzed
and the importance to the storyline. Gamemasters
%%% 253.txt %%%
need to carefully measure out their distribution of
intel and clues to players. Give them too much too
soon, and they may spoil the plot. Fail to give them
enough, and they may get frustrated or pursue dead
ends. Timing is everything.

REAL-TIME SEARCHES
Characters may also set up ongoing mesh scans that will
alert them if any relevant information comes up new or
updated, or is somehow changed. This is a task usually
assigned to muses for continuous oversight. Whenever
such data arises, the gamemaster secretly makes a Re-
search Test, modified by the obscurity of the topic. If
successful, the update is noted. If not, it is missed, though
the gamemaster may allow another test if and when the
topic reaches a wider range of circulation or interest.

HIDDEN DATA
It is important to remember that not everything can
be found online. Some data may only be acquired (or
may be more easily gotten) by asking the right people
(see Networking, p. 286). Information that is consid-
ered private, secret, or proprietary will likely be stored
away behind VPN firewalls, in off-mesh hardwired
networks, or in private and commercial archives. This
would require the character to gain access to such
networks in order to get the data they need (assuming
they even know where to look).
   It's worth noting that some entities send out AIs
into the mesh with the intent of finding and erasing
data they'd rather hide, even if this requires hacking
into systems to alter such information.



SCANNING, TRACKING,
AND MONITORING
Most users leave traces of their physical and digital
presence all throughout the mesh. Accounts they access,
devices with which they interact, services they use, ent-
optics they perceive—all of these keep logs of the event,
and some of these records are public. Simply passing
nearby some devices is enough to leave a trail, as near-
field radio interactions are often logged. This electronic
datatrail can be used to track a user, both to ascertain
their physical location or to note their online activities.

WIRELESS SCANNING
To interface with a wireless device or network, whether
to establish a connection or for other purposes, the
target device/network must be located first. To locate
an active node, it's wireless radio transmissions must be
detected. Most wireless devices automatically scan for
other devices in range (see Radio and Sensor Ranges, p.
299) as a matter of course, so no test is required. This
means that it's trivial for any character to pull up a
list of the wireless devices and networks around them,
along with associated mesh IDs. Likewise, a muse or
device can be instructed to alert the user when a new
signal (or a specific user) comes into range.
   Detecting stealth signals (p. 252), however, is a bit
more challenging. To detect a stealthed signal, the scan-
ning party must actively search for such signals, taking
a Complex Action and making an Interfacing Test with
a –30 modifier. If successful, they detect the hidden emis-
sions. If the character aiming for stealth engages in active
countermeasures, also requiring a Complex Action, then
an Opposed Interfacing Test is called for (with the –30
modifier still applying to the scanning party).
   For covert devices that are only transmitting in
short bursts, wireless detection is only possible during
the short period the burst transmission is being made.

PHYSICAL TRACKING
Many users willingly allow themselves to be physically
tracked via the mesh. To them, this is a useful feature—
it allows their friends to find them, their loved ones to
know where they are, and for authorities to come to
their aid in the event of some emergency. Finding their
location is simply a matter of looking them up in the
local directory, no test required (assuming you know
who they are). Mesh positioning is accurate to within
5 meters. Once located, the position of the target can
be monitored as they move as long as they maintain
an active wireless connection to the mesh.

TRACKING BY MESH ID
An unknown user's physical location can also be
tracked via their online mesh activity—or more spe-
cifically, by their mesh ID (p. 246). Network security
will often trace intruders this way and then dispatch
security squads to bring them in. To track an unknown
user by their mesh ID alone requires a Research Test.
If successful, they have been tracked to their current
physical location (if still online) or last point of in-
teraction with the mesh. If the character is in privacy
mode (p. 252), a –30 modifier applies.

TRACKING BY BIOMETRICS
Given the existence of so many spimes and public
cameras and sensors, people may also be tracked by
their facial profile alone using facial recognition soft-
ware. This software scans accessible video feeds and
attempts to match it to a photo of the target. Given
the sheer volume of cameras, however, and the typical
range of false-positives and false-negatives, finding
the target often boils down to luck. Priority can be
given to cameras monitoring major thoroughfares, to
narrow the search, but this risks missing the target if
they avoid heavy traffic areas. The success of searches
of this nature is best left to gamemaster fiat, but a
Research Test can also be called for, modified ap-
propriately by the range of the area being watched,
whenever there is a chance the target may be spotted.
  Other biometric signatures may also be used for
tracking this way, though these are usually less avail-
able than cameras: thermal signatures (requires infra-
red cameras), walking gait, scent (requires olfactory
sensors), DNA (requires DNA scanners), etc. Each
biometric scan requires a separate type of software.
%%% 254.txt %%%
DIGITAL ACTIVITY TRACKING
Tracking someone's online activities (meshbrowsing,
entoptic interactions, use of services, messaging, etc.)
is slightly more difficult, depending on what exactly
you're after. Gathering information on a user's public
mesh activities—social network profiles, public
forums posts, public lifelogging, etc.—is handled just
like standard online research (p. 249).

TRACKING BY MESH ID
A more investigate search can attempt to use the
target's mesh ID (p. 246), using it as a sort of digital
fingerprint to look up where else they've been online.
This primarily involves checking access/transaction
logs, which are not always publicly accessible. This
sort of search requires a Research Test, handled as a
Task Action with a timeframe of 1 hour.

SNIFFING
Wireless radio traffic is broadcast through the air (or
space), meaning that it can be intercepted by other wire-
less devices. “Sniffing” involves the capture and analysis
of data traffic flowing through the wireless mesh.
   To eavesdrop on wireless communications, you need
a sniffer program (p. 331) and you must be within
radio range (p. 299) of the target (alternately, you can
access a device that is within radio range of the target,
and sniff from that location). To capture the informa-
tion you must succeed in an Infosec Test. If successful,
you capture data traffic from any targeted devices in
range. Note that sniffing does not work on encrypted
traffic (including VPNs and anything else using public
key cryptography) as the results are gibberish. Quan-
tum encrypted communications cannot be sniffed.
   Once you have the data, finding the information
you're looking for can be a challenge. Handle this as
a standard Research Test (p. 245).

REMOTE SNIFFING VIA MESH ID
Finally, a mesh ID may also be actively monitored
to see what mesh activity it engages in. This requires
special sniffer software (p. 331) and a Research Test.
If successful, the monitoring will provide information
on that user's public mesh activities (how much is
determined by the gamemaster and the MoS), such
as which sites they access, who they message, etc. It
will not, however, uncover anything that is encrypted
(unless the encryption is broken) or anything that
takes place on a VPN (unless the VPN is hacked first),
though it will show that encrypted communications
and/or VPN use are taking place.



PRIVACY AND ANONYMIZATION
Given how easily mesh activities are monitored, many
users pursue privacy and anonymization options.

PRIVACY MODE
Characters who go into privacy mode hide their online
presence and activities from others to a limited degree.
The exact settings are adjustable, but typically involve
masking their social profiles and presence to other
users in the immediate vicinity, like having an unlisted
phone number. Privacy mode can also be used to limit
the use of mesh IDs and other data in access and
transaction logs, applying a –30 modifier to attempts
to research or track them by their online activity.

STEALTHED SIGNALS
Another tactic that can be taken for privacy is to
stealth the wireless radio signals you emit. This
method uses a combination of spread-spectrum signals,
frequency hopping, and modulation to make your
radio transmissions harder to detect with scanning (p.
251). Stealthing your signals is either a passive activity
(Automatic Action, –30 modifier on Interface Tests to
locate the signal) or an active one (Complex Action,
requires an Opposed Test to locate).

ANONYMIZATION
Anonymization takes the issue of privacy a bit further.
The user does not just hide their mesh ID, but they
actively use false mesh IDs and take other measures to
reroute and obfuscate their datatrail. Anonymization
is a necessity both for clandestine operatives and those
engaging in illicit mesh activities.

FALSE MESH IDS
The easiest method of making mesh activities anony-
mous is to set your muse to supply false mesh IDs in
online transactions. Though illegal in many jurisdic-
tions, this is an easy task for any character or muse to
do. Multiple false IDs are used, making it extremely dif-
ficult for anyone to tie all of the user's activities together.
   This method makes it extremely difficult for anyone
to track the user's online actions. Someone attempting
to track the character via these false mesh IDs must
beat them in an Opposed Test, pitting their Research
skill with a –30 modifier against the character's (or
more likely, their muse's) Infosec skill. This is a Task
Action with a base timeframe of 1 hour, adjusted
higher according to the amount of activity they hope
to track. If successful, the tracker manages to dig
together enough correlating evidence and records of
false IDs to get a picture of the character's activities
(how thorough this picture is depends on their MoS).
If the fail, the anonymous character has effectively
camouflaged themselves in the mesh.
   Actively monitoring a character who is fluctuating
their mesh ID with a sniffer program, or physically
tracking them via the mesh, is next to impossible, as
the continual shifting of IDs and intentional decoys
make it too difficult to keep up.

ANONYMOUS ACCOUNT SERVICES
A number of people—not just criminals, hackers, and
secret agents—have an interest in keeping some of
their affairs anonymous. To meet this demand, various
online service vendors offer anonymous accounts for
messaging and credit transfers. Some of these vendors
%%% 255.txt %%%
are legit business (in places where it is legal), some
are criminals operating illegally, others are hacktivists
promoting the privacy meme, and still others are hy-
percorps or other organizations offering such services
internally to their own staff/membership.
   The interaction between the vendor and user is
encrypted and anonymous, with no logs kept, so even
if the vendor's servers are hacked, an intruder will
not find any leads. While some anonymous accounts
are established for regular use, the truly paranoid use
(multiple) one-time accounts for maximum security.
One-time accounts are used for a single message (in-
coming or outgoing) or credit transaction, and then
are securely erased.
   Tracking an anonymous account is a practical
impossibility, and something that only an extremely
resourceful organization employing a systematic and
expensive effort could attempt.

DISPOSABLE ECTOS
Another option for those seeking privacy and se-
curity is to simply use disposable ectos. Using this
method, all activity is routed through a specific ecto
(using its mesh ID), the ecto is used for a limited
period (until it gets hot), and then it is simply dis-
carded or destroyed.



MESH SECURITY
Given the lessons of the Fall and the very real risk still
posed by hackers, virii, and similar threats, network
security is taken extremely seriously in Eclipse Phase.
Four methods are typically used: authentication, fire-
walls, active monitoring, and encryption.

AUTHENTICATION
Most devices, networks (PANs, VPNs, etc.), and ser-
vices require some kind of authentication (a process
by which a system determines whether the claimed
identity of a user is genuine) before they grant an ac-
count and access privileges (p. 246) to a user. There
are several different ways for a system to authenticate
a user. Some are more reliable and secure than others,
but for the most part, the more secure the method, the
higher the operational expenses.
   Account: If you have access to an account on one
system, this may give you automatic access to related
systems or subsystems. This is typical of slaved devices
(p. 248), where access to the master automatically
grants you access to slaves.
   Mesh ID: Some systems accept mesh IDs as authen-
tication. This is extremely common with most public
systems, which merely log the mesh ID of any user
that wishes access. Other systems will only allow
access to specific mesh IDs, but these are vulnerable
to spoofing (p. 255).
   Passcode: This is a simple string of alphanumeric
characters or logographic symbols, submitted in an
encrypted format. Anyone with the passcode can
access the account.
   Biometric Scan: This calls for a scan of one or more
of the user's biometric signatures (fingerprint, palm
print, retinal scan, DNA sample, etc.). Popular before
the Fall, such systems have fallen out of use as they
are impractical with synthmorphs or users that fre-
quently resleeve.
   Passkey: Passkey systems call for some of encrypted
code that is either hardwired into a physical device
(that is either implanted or physically jacked into
an ecto) or extracted from specialized software. Ad-
vanced passkeys combine hardwired encryption with
physical nanotech etching to create a unique key. To
access such systems, the passkey must either be ac-
quired or somehow spoofed.
   Ego Scan: This system authenticates the user's ego
ID (p. 279).
   Quantum Key: Quantum key systems rely on the un-
breakable encryption of quantum cryptography (p. 254).

FIREWALLS
Firewalls are software programs (sometimes hard-
wired into a device) that intercept and inspect all traf-
fic to and from a protected network or device. Traffic
that meets specified criteria that designates it as safe
is passed through, whereas all other traffic is blocked.
In Eclipse Phase, every network and device can be
assumed to have a firewall by default. Firewalls are
the main obstacle that an intruder must overcome, as
discussed under Intrusion Tests, p. 255.
   Like other gear, firewalls come in varying quality
levels and so may apply modifiers to certain tests.

ACTIVE MONITORING
Instead of relying on authentication and firewalls
alone, secure systems are actively monitored by a se-
curity hacker or a muse. These digital security guards
inspect network traffic using a number of software
tools and applications that flag conspicuous events.
Active surveillance makes intrusions more difficult,
since the interloper must beat the monitoring hacker/
AI in an Opposed Test (see Intrusion, p. 254). Active
monitoring also includes monitoring any devices
slaved to the monitored system.
   Characters may actively monitor their own PANs if
they so choose, though this requires a moderate level
of attention (count as a Quick Action). It is far more
common for a muse to actively guard a user's PAN.

ENCRYPTION
Encryption is an exceptionally effective extra layer of
security. There are two types of encryption commonly
used in Eclipse Phase: public key cryptosystems and
quantum cryptography.

PUBLIC KEY CRYPTO
In public key cryptosystems, two keys are generated
by the user, a public key and a secret key. The public
key is used to encrypt messages to that user, and is
made freely available. When messages are encrypted
using that public key, only the secret key—controlled
%%% 256.txt %%%
by the user—can decrypt them. Public key crypto is
widely used both for encrypting data traffic between
two users/networks/devices and for encrypting
files. Due to the strength of the public key system
algorithms, such crypto is essentially unbreakable
without a quantum computer (see Quantum Code-
breaking, p. 254).

QUANTUM CRYPTOGRAPHY
Quantum key distribution systems use quantum me-
chanics to enable secure communications between two
parties by generating a quantum key. The major advan-
tage of transmitting information in quantum states is
that the system itself instantly detects eavesdropping
attempts as quantum systems are disturbed by any sort
of external interference. In practical terms, this means
that quantum encrypted data transfers are unbreakable
and attempts to intercept automatically fail. Note that
quantum crypto doesn't work for basic file encryption,
its only use is in protecting communication channels.
   While quantum key systems have an advantage over
public key systems, they are both more expensive and
less practical. In order to generate a quantum key,
the two communications devices must be entangled
together on a quantum level, in the same location,
and then separated. So quantum key encrypted
communications channels require some setup effort,
especially if long distances are involved. Since the
implementation of quantum cryptographic protocols
is an extraordinary expense, it is usually only adopted
for major high-security communications links.

BREAKING ENCRYPTION
What this means is that encrypted communications
lines and files are very safe if using public key systems,
and that data transfers are absolutely safe if using
quantum crypto. Gamemasters should take note, how-
ever: while this may be useful to player characters, it
may also hinder them. If the characters need to get at
something that is encrypted, they're going to need to
figure out some way to get the secret key's passcode.
Common methods include the old standbys of bribery,
blackmail, threats, and torture. Other options involve
espionage or social engineering to somehow acquire
the passcode. Hackers could also find some other
method to compromise the system and gain inside
access, bypassing the encryption entirely.

QUANTUM CODEBREAKING
As noted above, quantum computers can also be used
to break public key encryption. This requires an Infosec
Task Action Test with a +30 modifier and a timeframe
of 1 week (once started, the quantum computer finishes
the job on its own; the user does not need to provide
constant oversight). Gamemasters should feel free to
modify this timeframe as fits the needs of their game.
Note that quantum computers cannot break quantum-
encrypted communications, only encrypted files.



INTRUSION
The art of intrusion lies in penetrating a device's secu-
rity. The best methods involve infiltrating a system qui-
etly, without catching a watchdog's attention, by using
exploits—code glitches, flawed security protocols—to
create a path circumventing the target's defenses. When
called for, however, a hacker can toss aside pretenses
and attempt to brute-force their way in.

PRECONDITIONS
In order to hack a device, the hacker needs to establish
a direct connection to the target computer system. If
the hacker is making a direct wireless connection to
the target, the target system must be wireless-capable
and within range (p. 299), and the hacker must know
the target is there (see Wireless Scanning, p. 251). If
the system is hard-wired, the hacker must physically
jack in by using a regular jacking port or somehow
tapping into a cable that carries the network's data
traffic. If the hacker is accessing the target through the
%%% 257.txt %%%
mesh, the target system must be online and the hacker        INTRUSION TESTS
must know it's mesh ID (p. 246) or otherwise be able         Hacking into a node is a time-consuming task. The
to track it down (p. 251).                                   target system must be carefully analyzed and probed
                                                             for weaknesses, without alerting its defenses. Depend-
CIRCUMVENTING AUTHENTICATION                                 ing on the type of security in place, more than one test
Rather than hacking in, an intruder can try to sub-          may be called for.
vert the authentication system used to vet legitimate          Hackers require special exploit software (p. 331) to
users. The easiest manner of doing this is to somehow        take advantage of security holes, but software does
acquire the passcode, passkey, or whatever authentica-       not a hacker make. What really counts is Infosec skill
tion method the target uses (p. 253). With this in hand,     (p. 180), which is the ability to use, modify, and im-
no test is necessary to access the system; the hacker        provise exploits to their full advantage.
simply logs in just like a legitimate user and has all of
the normal access privileges of that user.                   DEFEATING THE FIREWALL
   Lacking a passcode, the hacker can try to subvert         Lacking a passcode, the hacker must break in the old-
the authentication system in one of two other ways:          fashioned way: discreetly scanning the target, look for
spoofing or forgery.                                         weaknesses, and take advantage of them. In this case
                                                             the hacker takes their exploit software and makes an
SPOOFING AUTHENTICATION                                      Infosec Test. This is handled as a Task Action with a
Using this method, the hacker attempts to disguise           timeframe of 10 minutes. Various modifiers may apply,
their signals as coming from the legitimate, authen-         such as the quality of the exploit software, the quality
ticated user, rather than from themself. If successful,      of the Firewall, or the alertness of the target system. The
the system is fooled by this masquerade, accepting the       gamemaster may also modify the timeframe, shortening
hacker's commands and activity as if they came from          it to reflect systems that are cookie-cutter common with
a legitimate user. Spoofing is more difficult to pull off,   known security flaws or raising it as fitting for a top-of-
but is very effective when it works.                         the-line system with still-unreleased defenses.
   To spoof a legitimate user, the hacker must be using         By default, a hacker trying to break in this way is
both sniffer and spoofing software (p. 331). The             pursuing standard user access rights (p. 247). If the
hacker must then monitor a connection between the            hacker wishes to obtain security or admin privileges on
legitimate user and the target system, and succeed           the system, apply a –20 or –30 modifier, respectively.
in an Infosec Test to sniff the traffic between them             If the Infosec Test succeeds, the intruder has invaded
(p. 252). Apply a –20 modifier if the user has secu-         the system without triggering any alarms. If the system is
rity account privileges, –30 if they have admin rights       actively monitored (p. 253), they must now avoid detec-
(p. 247). If the connection is encrypted, this will fail     tion by that watchdog (see below). If there is no active
unless the hacker has the encryption key.                    monitor, the intruder gains the status of Covert (see In-
   Armed with this data, the hacker then uses it to          truder Status, p. 256). If the intruder scored an Excellent
disguise their signals. This requires an Infosec Test,       Success, however, their status is Hidden (p. 256).
modified by the quality of the system's firewall and             Probing: Players may choose to take the time (p.
the hacker's spoofing program. If successful, com-           116) when probing the target for weakness and ex-
munications sent by the hacker are treated as coming         ploits. In fact, this is a common procedure when a
from the legitimate user.                                    hacker wants to ensure success.

FORGING AUTHENTICATION                                       BYPASSING ACTIVE SECURITY
Biometric and passkey systems used for authentication        If a system is also actively monitored (p. 253), the
(p. 253) can potentially be forged hackers who are           hacker must avoid detection. Treat this as a Variable
able to get a look at the originals. The means and tech-     Opposed Infosec Test between the intruder and the
niques for doing so differ, and are beyond the scope of      monitor. The outcome depends on both rolls:
this book, but successfully forging such systems would          If only the intruder succeeds, the hacker has ac-
allow a hacker to log in as the legitimate user.             cessed the node without the monitor or the system




 THE HACKING SEQUENCE
 1. Defeat the Firewall                                           Infosec Task Action (10 minutes)
 2. Bypass Active Security                                        Opposed Infosec Test
    a. Hacker Wins with Excellent Success, Defender Fails         Hidden status/+30 all tests (p. 256)
    b. Hacker Succeeds, Defender Fails                            Covert Status (p. 256)
    c. Both Succeed                                               Spot Status/Passive Alert (p. 256)
    d. Defender Succeeds, Hacker Fails                            Locked status/Active Alert (p. 256)                  ■
%%% 258.txt %%%
noticing. The hacker has acquired Covert status (p.
256). If the hacker scored an Excellent Success, their
status is Hidden (p. 256).
   If only the monitor succeeds, the hacking attempt
is spotted and the monitor may immediately lock the
hacker out of the system before they manage to fully
break in. The intruder may try again, but the monitor
will be vigilant for further intrusions.
   If both succeed, the intruder has gained access but
the monitor is aware that something strange is going
on. The hacker acquires Spotted status.
   If both fail, continue to make the same test on each
of the hacker's Action Phases, until one or both succeed.

INTRUDER STATUS
Intruder status is a simple way of measuring an
invader's situation when they are intruding upon
a system. This status has an impact on whether the
hacker has caught any attention or if they managed
to remain unobtrusive. Status is first determined when
the intruder access the system, though it may change
according to events.
  Note that intruder status is a separate matter from
account access privileges (p. 246). The latter represents
what a user can legally do on a system. The former
indicates how aware the system is of the hacker's true
nature as an intruder.

HIDDEN
An intruder with Hidden status has managed to silent-
ly sneak into the system without anyone noticing. The
system's security is totally unaware of their presence
and may not act against them. In this case, the hacker
is not using an account so much as they are exploit-
ing a flaw in the system that grants them a nebulous,
behind-the-scenes sort of presence in the system. The
hacker effectively has admin access rights, but does
not show up as an admin-level user in logs or other
statistics. Hidden characters receive a +30 modifier on
any efforts to subvert the system.

COVERT
An intruder with Covert status has accessed the
system in a manner that doesn't attract any unusual
attention. For all intents and purposes, they appear
to be a legitimate user with whatever access rights
they sought. Only extensive checking will turn up any
abnormalities. The system is aware of them, but does
not consider them a threat.

SPOTTED
Spotted status indicates that the system is aware of an
anomaly or intrusion but hasn't zeroed in on the in-
truder yet. The hacker appears to be a legitimate user
with whatever access rights they sought, but this will
not hold up under close scrutiny. The system goes on
passive alert (inflicting a –10 modifier to the hacker's
activities on that system) and may engage the hacker
with passive countermeasures (p. 257).
LOCKED
Locked status means that the intruder—including their
datatrail—has been pinned down by system security.
The hacker has access and account privileges, but they
have been flagged as an interloper. The system is on
active alert (inflicting a –20 modifier on the hacker's ac-
tions) and may launch active countermeasures (p. 257)
against the intruder.

CHANGING STATUS
An intruder's status is subject to change according to
their actions and the actions of the system.

UPGRADING STATUS
A hacker can attempt to improve their status in order
to better protect themself. This requires a Complex
Action and an Infosec Test. If the hacker has Spotted
status, this is an Opposed Test between monitor and
intruder. If the hacker wins and scores an Excellent
Success (MoS of 30+), they have upgraded their status
by one level (for example, from Covert to Hidden).
Intruders with Locked status may not upgrade.

ZEROING IN
A security hacker or muse that is actively monitoring
a system can take a Complex Action and attempt to
hone in on a Spotted intruder. An Opposed Infosec Test
is made between both parties. If the system's defender
wins, the hacker is downgraded to Locked status.

FAILING TESTS
Any time an intruder scores a Severe Failure (MoF
30+) on a test involving manipulating the system, they
are automatically downgraded one status level (from
Covert to Spotted, for example). If a critical failure
is rolled, they immediately give themselves away and
achieve Locked status.

BRUTE-FORCE HACKING
Sometimes a character simply doesn't have time to do
the job right, and they need to hack in now or never.
In this case the hacker engages the target system im-
mediately, head on, without taking any time to pre-
pare an attack. The hacker simply brings all of their
software exploit tools to bear, throwing them at the
target and hoping that one works. This is handled as
an Infosec Test, but as a Task Action with a timeframe
of 1 minute (20 Action Turns). The hacker receives
a +30 modifier on this test. Many hackers choose to
rush the job (see Task Actions, p. 120), in order to cut
this time even shorter.
  The drawback to brute-force hacking is that it imme-
diately triggers an alarm. If the system is actively moni-
tored, the hacker must beat the monitor in an Opposed
Infosec Test or be immediately locked out as soon as
they break in. Even if they succeed, the hacker has
Locked status and is subject to active countermeasures.
%%% 259.txt %%%
INTRUSION COUNTERMEASURES
If an intruding hacker fails to penetrate a system's
defenses (i.e., they are Spotted or Locked, see p. 256),
then the system goes on alert and activates certain
defenses. The nature of the applied countermeasures
depends on the capabilities of the system, the abilities
of its security defender(s), and the policy of its owner/
admins. While some nodes will simply seek to kick
the intruder out and keep them shut out, others will
actively counterattack, seeking to track the intruder
and potentially hack the intruder's own PAN.

SECURITY ALERTS
Security alerts come in two flavors: passive and active.

PASSIVE ALERT
Passive alerts are triggered when an intruder hits Spot-
ted status. The system immediately flags a visual or
acoustic cue to anyone actively monitoring the system
and possibly the owner or admins. It immediately
launches one or more passive countermeasures (see
below). Depending on the system, extra security hack-
ers or AIs may be brought in to help investigate. If the
intruder is not encountered again or located within a
set time period (usually about 10 minutes), the alarm
is deactivated and the event is logged as an anomaly.
Depending on the security level of the system, some-
one may analyze the logs at some point and try to
ascertain what happened—and prevent it from hap-
pening again.
   All intruders suffer a –10 modifier for tests involv-
ing a system that is on passive alert.

ACTIVE ALERT
An active alert is triggered when an intruder hits
Locked status. The system immediately alerts the
owners, admins, and monitoring security agents.
Additional security assets (hackers and AIs) may be
called in. The system also launches active countermea-
sure against the intruder (see below). Active alerts are
maintained for as long as the intruder is present, and
sometimes for a lengthy period afterwards just in case
the hacker returns.

PASSIVE COUNTERMEASURES
Passive countermeasures are launched as a precaution
whenever an intruder acquires Spotted status.

LOCATE INTRUDER
A security hacker or AI monitoring a system may at-
tempt to track down the source of the passive alert.
See Zeroing In, p. 256.

RE-AUTHENTICATE
When a passive alert is triggered, a firewall can be set
to re-authenticate all active users, starting with the
most recent. At the beginning of the next Action Turn,
everyone on the system must take an action to log
back in. For intruders, this means making an Infosec
Test, modified by –10 for the passive alert, to satisfy
the system that they are a legitimate user.

REDUCE PRIVILEGES
As a protective measure, some systems will immedi-
ately reduce access privileges available to standard
users, and sometimes security users as well. One
common tactic is to protect all logs, backing them up
and making sure no one has rights to delete them.

ACTIVE COUNTERMEASURES
Active countermeasures can only be launched if the
intruder has acquired Locked status.

COUNTERINTRUSION
A security hacker or guardian AI can proactively
defend a system by attacking the intruder's source. For
this to occur, the intruder must first be successfully
traced (p. 251). Once this occurs, the security forces
can then launch their own intrusion on the hacker's
home ecto/mesh inserts and/or PAN.

LOCKOUT
A system that has locked onto an intruder may also
attempt to lock them out. Lockout is an attempt to
remove the compromised account, sever the connec-
tion between the two, and dump the hacker from
the system.
   Lockout must be initiated by someone with secu-
rity or admin privileges. An Opposed Infosec Test is
made, with the intruder suffering a –20 modifier for
being Locked. If the character defending the system
succeeds, the intruder is immediately ejected from
the system and the account they used will be placed
on quarantine or deleted. That account will not be
usable again until a security audit approves it and
replaces the authentication. Any attempt to access
the system from the same mesh ID as the intruder
automatically fails.

REBOOT/SHUTDOWN
Perhaps the most drastic option for dealing with an
interloper is to simply shut down the system. In this
case, the system closes all wireless connections (if it
has any), logs off any users, terminates all processes,
and shut itself down—thereby locking out the intruder.
The disadvantage, of course, is that the system must
interrupt its activities. For example, shutting down
your mesh inserts or ecto means losing all communica-
tion with teammates, access to augmented reality, and
control over slaved/linked devices.
   Initiating a reboot/shutdown is only a Complex
Action, but the actual process of shutdown takes
anywhere from 1 Action Turn (personal devices) to 1
minute (large hardwired networks with multiple users),
determined by the gamemaster. Rebooting a system
takes the same amount of time to get started again.
%%% 260.txt %%%
TRACE
For high-security systems, a popular countermeasure
is to track the infiltrator's physical location via their
mesh ID (see Physical Tracking, p. 251). In most cases,
habitat physical security is subsequently alerted and
forwarded the position to take care of the criminal.

WIRELESS TERMINATION
An alternative to shutdown or rebooting is simply to
sever all wireless connections by shutting down the
wireless capabilities of the system. The system will
lose all active connections, but any intruders will be
dumped. Wireless termination is a Complex Action to
initiate and completes at the end of that Action Turn.
Re-starting wireless connectivity takes 1 Action Turn.




  JOINT HACKING/
  SECURING
  Hacking will sometimes involve teams of attack-
  ers and/or teams of defenders. A hacker might
  be backed up by their muse or another team
  member with moderate Infosec skills. Hard
  networks are often defended and monitored
  by teams of highly-skilled security hackers and
  AIs. When intruding in or defending a computer
  system, operators must decide whether to act
  individually or in concert.
     Each approach has its tradeoffs. A team that
  chooses to breach or maintain a system's security
  as a team effort must allocate one character (usu-
  ally the team member with the highest Infosec
  skill) as the primary actor (see Teamwork, p. 117).
  Each additional character and muse adds a +10
  modifier for each test (up to the maximum +60
  modifier) but cannot spend time on other actions
  than those performed by the team leader. When
  acting in concert, teams may switch team leaders
  at any time, in case group members are special-
  ized for certain tasks.
     Alternately, both intruding and defending
  teams may choose to act individually but for a
  joint goal. Each hacker must make intrusions
  on their own, with individual repercussions for
  detection and counterintrusion, which runs the
  risk of affecting all intruders if any one is Spotted
  or Locked. On the other hand, a team of intrud-
  ers can pursue multiple actions simultaneously in
  a coordinated manner and may temporarily over-
  whelm available security. The same holds true for
  system defenders, who may accomplish more by
  splitting their actions, leaving some to monitor
  while others launch counterintrusion attacks and
  other countermeasures.                              ■
%%% 261.txt %%%
SUBVERSION                                                                             SUBVERSION EXAMPLES
Once an intruder has successfully invaded a device                            In addition to the tasks noted under the Subversion Difficulties
or network, they can pursue whatever tasks they are                                these modifiers present some additional example actions.
interested in, as fitting that particular system. Depend-
ing on the type of account the intruder hacked, they                   MODIFIER TASK
may or may not have access privileges to do what                          Hacking Bots/Vehicles
they want to do. If their access rights allow it, the                    –0         Give orders to drones
activity is handled like that of a legitimate user and                   –10        Alter sensor system parameters, disable sensors or weapo
no test is called for (unless the activity itself calls for              –20        Alter smartlink input, send false data to AI or teleoperato
some kind of test, such as Research). For example, a
                                                                         –30        Lockout AI or teleoperator, seize control via puppet sock
hacker who infiltrates a habitat's security system with
                                                                          Hacking Ectos/Mesh Inserts
a security account can monitor cameras, deactivate
sensors, review recorded surveillance footage, and so                               Interact with entoptics, befriend everyone in range, make
                                                                         –0
on, as any legitimate user with security right would be                             purchases using user's credit, intercept communications,
allowed to do.                                                                      Alter social network profile/status, adjust AR filters, twea
                                                                         –10
   Engaging in any sort of activity for which you                                   interface, change AR skin, change avatar, access VPN
don't have access rights is more difficult and requires                             Block or shuffle senses, inject AR illusions, spoof comman
                                                                         –20
hacking the system. This typically requires an Infosec                              drones/slaved devices
Success Test, modified by the difficulty of the action                   –30        Boot user out of AR
as noted on the Subversion Difficulties table. In most                    Hacking Habitat Systems
cases this in not an Opposed Test even if the system is
                                                                         –0         Open/close doors, stop/start elevators, operate intercom
actively monitored, unless specifically stated otherwise.
                                                                                    Adjust temperature/lighting, disable safety warnings, repl
Failing such tests, however, will result in a change of                  –10
                                                                                    tic skin, lock doors, switch traffic timers
the hacker's intruder status (see Failing Tests, p. 256).
   Examples for different types of system subversion                                Disable subsystems (plumbing, recycling, etc.), disable wi
                                                                         –20
are given in the Subversion Examples sidebar. This                                  dispatch repair crews
is not an exhaustive list, however, and gamemasters                      –30        Override safety cutoffs
and players are encouraged to improvise game effects                      Hacking Security Systems
in case an action has not been explicitly described.                     –0         Move/manipulate cameras/sensors, locate security systems
                                                                                    Adjust patterns of sensor sweeps, view security logs, disa
AUGMENTED REALITY ILLUSIONS                                              –10
                                                                                    systems
A hacker who has infiltrated an ecto, mesh inserts, or                   –20        Delete security logs, dispatch security teams
some other device with an AR interface may inject
                                                                         –30        Disable alerts
different kinds of visual, auditory, tactile, and even
                                                                          Hacking Simulspace Systems
emotional illusions into the augmented reality of
the device's user, depending on the type of interface                    –0         View current status of simulspace, simulmorphs, and acce
used. How the hacked user will respond to the illu-                                 Change domain rules, add cheats, alter parameters of sto
                                                                         –10
sion depends on a number of factors, such as whether                                simulmorphs, change time dilation
they are aware of the intruder (i.e., the hacker has                     –20        Eject simulmorph, alter/erase character AIs
Spotted or Locked status), what type of interface they                   –30        Abort simulation
are using (entoptic or haptic), and how realistic the                     Hacking Spimes
illusion is.                                                             –0         Get status report, use device functions
   The best illusions are, of course, crafted in advance,
                                                                         –10        Adjust AI/voice personality settings, adjust timed operatio
using the best image and sensory manipulation tools
available. Such illusions are hyper-realistic. Anyone                    –20        Disable sensors, disable device functions
making a Perception Test to identify them as fake


                                         SUBVERSION DIFFICULTIES
                                              Difficulty modifiers for common computer tasks

MODIFIER TASK
             Execute commands, view restricted information, run restricted software, open/close connections to other systems, read/write/
    –0
             copy/delete files, access sensor feeds, access slaved devices
   –10       Change system settings, alter logs/restricted files
   –20       Interfere with system operations, alter sensor/AR input
   –30       Shut system down, lockout user/muse, launch countermeasures at others
%%% 262.txt %%%
suffers a –10 to –30 modifier (gamemaster's discre-
tion). An eclectic collection of software programs
offer a diverse range of AR illusions.
   Hackers may also improvise illusions on the
fly, usually by patching in sensor data from others
sources, though this is more difficult and more easily
spotted (typically adding a +10 to +30 modifier to
Perception Tests). The advantage is that the hacker
can modify the illusion in reaction to the user's ac-
tions or environmental factors on the fly. AR illusion
software, however, also offers some template illusions
that can be modified and controlled in real-time via a
connected interface.
   Whenever a user is bombarded with AR illusions, the
gamemaster should make a secret Perception Test to see
if they spot the deception. Even if they do, however, the
character may still react to them. Almost anyone will
duck when they see an object suddenly flying at their
face, as their body reacts on its own before the brain
comprehends that it's an illusion and not a threat.
   Aside from their deceptive value, illusions can be
used to distract users or otherwise impair their percep-
tive faculties. For example, dark illusory clouds can
obscure vision, ear-wrenching high-volume noises can
make people cringe, and a persistent tickling sensation
might drive anyone crazy. Such effects can apply a –10
to –30 modifier to Perception Tests and other actions,
but the user can also adjust their filters and/or turn
their AR off if necessary.

BACKDOORS
A backdoor is a method of bypassing a system's normal
authentication and security features. It enables a hacker
to sneak into a system by exploiting a flaw (which can
take the form of an installed program or modification
to an existing program or hardware device) that was
integrated into the system previously, either by themself
or another hacker (who shared the backdoor).
   To install a backdoor, the hacker must successfully
infiltrate the system and succeed in both a Program-
ming and an Infosec Test (or an Opposed Infosec Test
if the system is actively monitored). The Programming
Test determines how well the backdoor is crafted and
hidden within system processes, while the Infosec Test
represents incorporating it into the system without se-
curity noticing. Modify the Programming Test by –20
if the hacker wants to have security privileges when
using the backdoor, –30 for admin.
   Once installed, using a backdoor requires no test to
access the system—the hacker simply logs on as if they
were a legitimate user, gaining Covert status. Anyone
who is aware of a backdoor's details may use it.
   How long the backdoor lasts depends on many fac-
tors and is largely up to the gamemaster. Backdoors
are only likely to be spotted during complete security
audits, so more paranoid systems are likely to detect
them earlier. Security audits may also occur when an
intruder is Spotted but never Locked. Security audits
are a Task Action with a timeframe of 24 hours. The
character conducting the audit makes an Infosec
Test to spot the back door. If the backdoor's installer
scored an Excellent Success on their Programming
Test, this Infosec Test suffers a –30 modifier.

CRASHING SOFTWARE
Intruders can attempt to crash software programs
by killing the processes that run them. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test. Note that some
software is set to immediately respawn, but this can take
from 1 Action turn to 1 minute, depending on the system.
   Hackers may crash AIs, AGIs, and even infomorphs
this way, but the process is more difficult. In this case,
an Opposed Infosec Test is made against the target,
who is immediately aware they are under attack. Two
consecutive tests must succeed in order to crash an AI,
three in order crash an AGI or infomorph. If successful,
the AI/infomorph immediately reboots, which generally
takes 3 Action Turns, longer if the gamemaster chooses.

ELIMINATING INTRUSION TRACES
Hackers who have avoided being Locked may attempt
to clean up all traces of their intrusion before they
exit a system. This involves erasing incriminating data
in the access and security logs, and otherwise hiding
any evidence of system tampering. This requires a
Complex Action and an Infosec Test, or an Opposed
Infosec Test if the system is actively monitored. If suc-
cessful, the intruder has wiped anything that might be
used to track them down later, such as mesh ID, etc.

HACKING VPNS
Virtual private networks (VPNs) are more challeng-
ing to hack than standard devices. Because they exist
as an encrypted network within the mesh, accessing
channels of communication within a VPN is all but
impossible with the encryption key. This means any
attempt to sniff the VPN traffic is also impossible
with the key.
  The only way to hack a VPN is to hack into a
device that is part of the VPN and running the VPN
software. Once an intruder has access to such a device,
they can attempt to access the VPN. The account the
hacker has compromised may have VPN privileges, in
which case they are in. If not, they must hack access,
requiring an Infosec Test with a Minor modifier (–10).
   Once access to the VPN is acquired, the hacker may
treat the VPN like any other network. They may hack
other devices on the VPN, sniff VPN traffic, track
other users on the VPN, research data hidden away
on the VPN, and so on.

SCRIPTING
A script is a simple program—a batch of instructions—
that a hacker can embed in a system to be executed at
a later pre-scheduled time or upon a certain trigger
event, even without the hacker being present. When
activated, the script will undertake a number of system
operations limited by the abilities of the operating
system and the access rights the hacker had when
they implemented the script in the system. Scripts are
%%% 263.txt %%%
a great way for a hacker to subvert a system without
necessarily being in danger when they do it.
   Scripts can be programmed on the fly or prepro-
grammed. When composing the script, the character
must detail what system operations the set will call
for, in what order and at what times (or at what trig-
ger steps). The script cannot contain more steps/tasks
than the character's Programming skill ÷ 10 (round
down). To program a script, the character must suc-
ceed in a Programming Test with a timeframe deter-
mined by the gamemaster.
   To load the script, the character must have suc-
cessfully intruded in the system and must succeed
in an Infosec Test (or an Opposed Infosec Test if the
system is actively monitored). If successful, the script
is loaded into the system and will run as programmed.
   Once the script is activated, it carries out the pre-
programmed sequence of actions. The programmer's
Infosec skill is used for any tests those actions call for.
   Inactivated scripts may be detected in a security
audit, just like backdoors (p. 260).


           Sarlo has infiltrated a security system and wants
           to arrange it so that a particular security sensor
           deactivates and a door unlocks at a set time, al-
           lowing his team to infiltrate a high-security area.
           He creates a script that will activate at 2200 hours
           with the following steps:
           1) At 2200 hours, disable security sensor
           2) Then unlock door
 EXAMPLE




           3) At 2230 relock door
           4) Then re-enable security sensor
           5) Eliminate traces
              This script has 5 steps, which Sarlo can handle
           with his Programming skill of 70. Sarlo succeeds in
           his Programming and Infosec Tests, and the script
           is loaded. It will then activate at the appropriate
           time. Since Sarlo's account did not have access
           rights to perform these actions, each will require
           an Infosec Test using Sarlo's skill to succeed.




CYBERBRAIN HACKING
Pods and synthmorphs (including some bots and ve-
hicles) are equipped with cybernetic brains. While this
technology allows a transhuman ego to sleeve into and
control these forms, they carry the disadvantage of being
vulnerable to hacking, like any other electronic device.
   Cyberbrains are not wireless-enabled for security
reasons, but they do have access jacks (p. 306) and
are directly linked to mesh inserts. This means that
in order to hack a cyberbrain, the hacker either must
have direct physical access to the morph's body in
order to jack in, or they must first hack into the mesh
inserts and then break into the cyberbrain from there.
   Due to their importance, cyberbrains are equipped
with numerous hard-coded security features that make
intrusion very difficult. Apply a –30 modifier to all
attempts to hack into and subvert a cyberbrain. (Note
that the –30 modifier for hacking an admin account
does not apply to cyberbrains.)
  Cyberbrains are treated just like other systems for
intrusion and subversion purposes, but since they
house the morph's controlling ego they present several
unique hacking opportunities.

ENTRAPMENT
An intruding character can attempt to lock in an ego,
preventing it from evacuating the cyberbrain. The
hacker (with the –30 modifier noted above) must
beat the defending character or muse in an Opposed
Infosec Test. If successful, the ego is prevented from
transferring itself to another system.
  To fully pen the ego in, the ego character and its
protecting muse must also be locked out (p. 257) from
controlling the cyberbrain's system, otherwise the ego
could potentially be freed.
   Trapped egos are quite vulnerable. They could, for
example, be subject to enforced uploading, enforced
forking, or psychosurgery.

MEMORY HACKING
All cyberbrains incorporate mnemonic augmentation
(p. 307), or digitally recorded memories. A hacker
who has accessed the cyberbrain can read, alter, or
delete these memories with a successful Research or
Interfacing Test (the –30 modifier applies).

PUPPETEERING
Cyberbrains also incorporate a puppet sock (p. 307),
enabling remote users to take over the pod or synth-
morph body and control it via teleoperation or jam-
ming (p. 196). This allows a hacker to seize control
of the body and manipulate it remotely. To do so, the
hacker must take a Complex Action and beat the de-
fending character or muse in an Opposed Infosec Test;
the hacker suffers the –30 modifier noted above.
   A defender who is not locked out may continue
to fight for control of the morph, using a Complex
Action. In this case, another Opposed Infosec Test
is called for. This can result in a situation where the
morph repeatedly slips control from the hacker to the
defender, or perhaps slips into a catatonic state as the
two sides battle it out.

SCORCHING
Having direct access to a cyberbrain opens the possi-
bility for certain kinds of attacks that are normally in-
feasible due to the strict content filtering that occurs on
the link between the cyberbrain and mesh inserts. One
of these possibilities is scorching—the use of damaging
                                   —the
neurofeedback algorithms to harm the victim's mind.
   In order to make a scorching attack, the cyberbrain
intruder must deploy a scorch program. To utilize a
scorch program, the intruder must beat the defending
Ego in an Opposed Infosec Test. The –30 modifier for
cyberbrain hacking applies to the attacker.
   Several types of scorch programs exist, with dif-
ferent effects: cauterizers (damage), bedlams (stress),
%%% 264.txt %%%
spasms (pain), nightmares (fear), and shutters (sensory
deprivation). These are described on p. 332 of Gear.

SHUTDOWN
If a cyberbrain is shut down (p. 257), the morph im-
mediately ceases activity, perhaps collapsing or rolling
to a stop. Pods will appear to be in a coma. The ego,
however, will be rebooted along with the cyberbrain.

TERMINATE CORTICAL STACK FEED
The cyberbrain feeds backup data to the cortical stack.
This is a one-way connection, so the cortical stack may
not be hacked, but the transfer of data may be cut off.
This termination action requires an Opposed Infosec
Test between the hacker (with the –30 modifier) and
the defender. The ego's backup will not be updated for
as long as the connection remains off.



RADIO JAMMING
Radio jamming is a method of transmitting radio
signals that deliberate interfere with other radio
signals in order to disrupt communications. In the
highly-networked world of Eclipse Phase, intentional
jamming is often illegal, not to mention rude.
  Radio jamming does not require any special equip-
ment other than a standard wireless device, such as
an ecto or mesh inserts. Jamming can be selective
or universal. Selective jamming targets a particular
device or set of devices. In order to selectively jam,
the character must have scanned the target device(s)
(p. 251). Universal devices target all radio-equipped
devices indiscriminately.
  Jamming simply requires a Complex Action and an
Interfacing Test. If successful, affected devices within
range have their radio communications disrupted—
they are cut off from the mesh and may not commu-
nicate wirelessly. Wired devices are unaffected.
   Devices equipped by AIs will automatically attempt
to overcome jamming, which requires a Complex
Action (transhuman users may also do the same). In
this case, a Variable Opposed Test is made between
the jammer and defender. If the jammer wins, all com-
munications are blocked; if the defender wins, they
are unaffected. If both parties succeed, the defender's
communications are impacted but not completely cut
off. The gamemaster decides how much information
the defender can get through, and how this situation
affects mesh use.

JAMMING RADAR
Jamming can also be used to interfere with radar. In
this case, if the jammer makes an Interface Test. If
successful, the radar suffers interference, imposing
a –30 modifier on all sensor-related tests. The entity
operating the radar may attempt to overcome this
interference by beating the jammer in an Opposed
Interface Test.
SIMULSPACES
Simulspaces are virtual reality environments where
the resolution advances beyond realistic high defini-
tion and into the hyper-real. The environments they
create are comprehensive and authentic illusions, from
aspects like lighting, day or lunar cycles, and weather
down to minute details and sensations. Jacking into
a simulspace is much like crossing over into a alter-
nate world or reality, which is why simulspaces have
become increasingly popular in entertainment.
   While simulspaces usually cannot harm characters
immersed in them as the sensory algorithms are not
intended to be offensive programs or routines, experi-
ences in simulspaces can have a strong psychological
impact on an ego, as the simulation is as close to
reality as you can get. A character who is “physically”
tortured within a simulspace will not be physically
harmed, but the mental stress of the experience might
still be sufficient to cause permanent traumas.

SIMULMORPHS
Characters access simulspace using an avatar-like per-
sona called a simulmorph. This simulmorph is created by
the simulspace, based on the domain rules of the simu-
lation and certain characteristics of the morph or ego
accessing the simulation. Depending on the simulation,
this simulmorph may be customizable to varying degrees.
   While interacting with the simulation, treat simul-
morphs as basic infomorphs for all rules purposes,
even if the egos are still possessing another morph
body in reality.
   When accessing a simulspace, muses are usually not
transferred into the simulation, though they can po-
tentially come along if domain rules permit it. In this
case, muses are treated as separate characters within
the simulspace with their own simulmorph body.
   Depending on the role a simulspace is intended to play
in the story, the gamemaster may want to invent “physi-
cal stats” for the simulmorph bodies, especially if the
characters are likely to spend a lot of time in the simula-
tion. These statistics can literally be made up—it is a vir-
tual reality after all, and anything goes. Alternately, the
gamemaster can simply wing it and invent any necessary
statistics on the fly as the need for them comes up.

IMMERSION
When a character immerses themselves in a simulspace,
they “become” the simulmorph. The character's physi-
cal body, typically secluded and protected in a vat or
couch, slumps inertly. While immersed, they suffer –60
on all Perception Tests or attempts to take action with
their physical morph. Characters can enter and leave
the simulspace as will, but toggling in or out takes a
Complex Action.
  If the simulspace crashes or the character is other-
wise dumped from it, they immediately resume con-
trol of their own morph as normal. VR dumpshock is
extremely jarring, and the character suffers 1d10 ÷ 2
mental stress.
%%% 265.txt %%%
EXTERNAL MESH INTERACTION
A character accessing a simulspace may still interact
with the mesh (and through it, the outside world)
assuming the domain rules allow for it. Any outside
interactions are subject to time dilation issues, how-
ever. For example, in a simulspace running faster
than real time, holding a chat with someone in out-
side meatspace is excruciatingly slow, as real-world
seconds translate into minutes in VR. If a character
wishes to directly access other mesh nodes, they must
toggle or log out of the simulspace.

SIMULSPACE RULES
Since a simulspace is an alternate world whose realism
matches reality, characters use their physical skills and
aptitudes as if they were acting in the real world with
few exceptions:

 - Though intrusion and hacking can be represented
   as another layer of the simulation, there is no
   actual hacking within the simulspace (see Hack-
   ing Simulspaces).
 - Asyncs cannot use their psi abilities in simulspace,
   though such abilities can be simulated.
 - Any “physical” damage taken in the simulspace is
   treated as “virtual” damage. While virtual injuries
   and wounds use the same mechanics, characters
   that die in a simulspace are usually simply ejected
   from the simulation. In some cases “dead” char-
   acters are brought into a white room and can
   re-enter or just watch the simulation, depending
   on the domain rules.
 - Mental stress or trauma inflicted during a simu-
   lation carries over to the ego as real Lucidity
   damage. At the gamemaster's discretion, some
   mental stress may be reduced if the character is
   aware that they are in a simulation.

DOMAIN RULES
Anything goes in a simulspace, as dictated by
the domain rules. A simulspace may range from
approximating reality very closely to differing dras-
tically. Gravity might fluctuate, the visual light spec-
trum might not exist, characters might heal virtual
damage effortlessly, simulmorphs may be capable of
transmogrifying into other creatures, everything might
be underwater—the possibilities are endless, limited
only by imagination. In game terms, this allows the
gamemaster to make up rules on the fly.

CHEATING
As with any good game, simulspaces provide ways
to cheat. Cheats are either built into the simulspace
software or (externally) programmed in by a hacker.
Cheats allow for a character to break the domain rules
in some way. This may be a special power, a way to
alter some environmental factor (like flying), altering
the time dilation, some sort of power-up ability, a
way to get info on other simulmorphs, or a short-cut
through part of the simulation. In game terms, cheats
might provide bonus modifiers to certain skill or stat
tests made by a simulmorph. Cheating is usually for-
bidden. Players who cheat in a simulspace game and
who get caught may face eviction from the simulspace.

HACKING SIMULSPACES
Since simulspaces are complex virtual environments
and often run on time dilation, hackers cannot hack
them in a normal manner when they participate in the
simulation. There are ways to affect and influence the
simulation from within, but the degree of subversion
that is achievable is limited. For this reason, hackers
rarely enter into VR to hack. Hacking into the exter-
nal system running a simulspace is just like breaking
into any other system. Use all of the standard rules for
intrusion and subversion.

MEDDLING FROM THE INSIDE
Within a simulspace, a hacker's only choice for inter-
acting with the VR controls is through the standard
interface that any simulmorph can pull up. Typically
used for standard user features like adjusting your
simulmorph or chatting with or checking the status
%%% 266.txt %%%
                              HACKING SIMULS
MODIFIER TASK
   –0     Analyze simulation parameters, view domain rules, shap
  –10     Change probability of test outcomes, become invisible (
          Interfere with simulation (e.g. make it rain, generate ear
  –20
          simulmorphs
  –30     Go into god mode, command simulated characters, take


 of other users, a clever hacker might find some ways
 to subvert the system. Such options are usually lim-
 ited, however, as a number of system controls and
 processes cannot be accessed and manipulated from
 the inside.
    Most of the hacker's options are going to involve
 meddling with the simulation and its specific domain
 rules or possibly gaining access to cheats. To make a
 change requires a successful Interface Test. Ultimately
 the gamemaster decides what the hacker can and
 cannot get away with, based on the limitations of that
 particular simulspace.
    Most simulspaces are monitored to prevent cheat-
 ing and abuse, though the monitors are typically pre-
 occupied with maintaining the simulspace as a whole,
 dealing with other users, etc. At the gamemaster's
 discretion, such a monitor might get to make an Inter-
 face Test (possibly with a modifier for distraction) to
 notice the hacker's efforts.



 AIS AND MUSES
AIs are sentient but specialized programs. Like other
software, they must be run on a computerized system.
Most AIs are run on bots, vehicles, and other com-
puterized devices where they can assist transhuman
users or operate the machine themselves. They are also
commonly used to actively monitor computer systems
against intrusion attempts. Muses are AIs that special-
ize as personal companions, always at a character's
virtual side every since they were a child.
   Sample AIs and muses can be found on p. 331 of Gear.

 AI LIMITATIONS
AIs feature a number of built-in restrictions and
limitations. To start with, they can be loaded in the
cyberbrains of pods and synthmorphs, but they may
not be downloaded into biomorph brains. As software,
they use the same rules as other software and may be
shut down, restarted, copied, erased, stored as inert
data, infected with virii, and reprogrammed. Due to
their size and complexity, only one AI (or infomorph)
may be run on a personal computer at a time (see
Computer Capabilities, p. 247), and they may not run
on peripheral devices.
  While they possess cognition and intelligence, they
are incapable of self-improvement and cannot expand
their programming and skills on their own. Although
ACE FROM WITHIN

pearance of simulmorph, switch simulmorph character or morph type
-game”) to others
akes), generate items, ignore domain rules, kill or lockout other

r the simulation


   they are not able to learn they do possess memory
   storage that grants them the ability to remember and
   a limited form of adaptation. AIs do not earn Rez
   Points, nor do they have Moxie.
     AIs have aptitudes no greater than 20 but are
   incapable of defaulting. If they don't possess a skill,
   they don't know how to do it. (At the gamemaster's
   discretion, they may default to field skills or similar
   skills as noted on p. 173 with a –10 to –30 modifier).
   They can use skills like any character in Eclipse Phase,
   however they may not possess any Active skill at a
   rating higher than 40 or Knowledge skill higher than
   90—the maximum amount of expertise that their skill
   software allows.
     While AIs are programmed with personality tem-
   plates and empathy, they are generally less emotive
   and difficult to read (apply a –30 modifier to Kinesics
   Test made against them, when in pod bodies). When
   combined with non-expressive synthetic morphs, they
   are even more difficult (–60 modifier). Some AIs lack
   emotive capabilities altogether and are impossible to
   read with Kinesics skill.
     AIs do have a Lucidity and Trauma Threshold stat,
   and are capable of suffering mental stress and traumas.

   COMMANDING AIS
   AIs and muses are programmed to accept commands
   from authorized users. In some circumstances, they
   may also be programmed to follow the law or some
   ethical code. Programming is never perfect, however,
   and AIs can be quite clever in how they interpret
   commands and act on them. In most cases, an AI will
   rarely refuse to follow a request or obey a command.
   Given that they also usually have a duty to protect the
   person commanding them, the AI may be reluctant to
   follow commands that could be construed as danger-
   ous or having a negative impact on the user. Under
   certain circumstances, preprogrammed imperatives
   can force an AI to ignore or disobey their owner's
   commands (gamemaster's discretion).



   AGIS AND INFOMORPHS
   The term “infomorph” is used to refer to any ego in
   digital body, whether that be an AGI or the digital
   emulation of a biological mind (including backups
   and forks). The following rules apply to infomorph
   and AGI characters.
%%% 267.txt %%%
ROLEPLAYING MUSES
Muses should not be viewed as a mere tool for
getting extra skills, but as an opportunity to
enhance roleplaying. Though typical muse AIs
are not complete intelligences (though they can
be, see Infomorphs as Muses), their personality
matrix is often quite sophisticated and they are
very good at adapting to their user's personality
quirks. On the other hand, they share the same
Real World Naiveté (p. 151) as AGI characters
when it comes to understanding all the facets
of transhuman behavior, social interaction,
body language, or emotion. Their personalities
are more non-human, abstract, alien, and less
passionate than transhuman life forms, often
leading to conceptual misunderstandings and
miscommunications. Likewise, their creative
capacities are limited, instead bolstered by an
ability to calculate odds, run simulations and
evaluate outcomes, and make predictions based
on previous experiences.
   Depending on the user's stance towards sen-
tient programs, muses can be viewed as intel-
ligent toys, followers, servants, slaves, friends,
or pets, which should somehow be reflected in
game play. Most transhumans have also acquired
a tendency to bond with a muse mentally due to
its omnipresence and devotion to the user (like
bonding to a child or puppy that then grows to
be an adult). Therefore the subversion or even
destruction of a muse personality is sometimes
even equated with rape or murder.              ■




  SOFTWARE MINDS
 At their core, infomorphs are just programs and so
 they are treated like other software in terms of rules.
 They must be run on a specific personal computer or
 server (see Computer Capabilities, p. 247). If that
 device is shut down, the infomorph also shuts down
 into a state of unconsciousness, restarting along with
 the device (infomorphs may also shut themselves
 down, though it is rare that they do so). If the device is
 destroyed, the infomorph is killed along with it (unless
 their data can somehow be extracted from any surviv-
 ing components, perhaps resulting in a vapor, p. 274).
 Infomorphs may copy themselves, though in some
 places this is illegal and in most places is frowned
 upon as it raises numerous ethical and legal questions.
 For this reason many infomorphs that copy and trans-
 fer themself to run on a new device will thoroughly
 erase themselves off the old one.
   As digital beings, infomorphs have no physical
 mind, but it is a simple matter for them to possess
 an uninhabited synthmorph, taking up residence in
 the cyberbrain (see Resleeving Synthmorphs, p. 271).
  INFOMORPHS AS
  MUSES
  Instead of relying on underdeveloped muses for
  aid and companionship, characters may prefer to
  have a full-fledged digital intelligence at their
  side, whether that be an AGI, a backed-up bio-
  logical ego, or fork of the character's own per-
  sonality. Alternately, a character with a ghostrider
  module (p. 307) could have both, carrying a muse
  in their mesh inserts and an infomorph in the
  ghostrider module.
    This possibility is very useful for infomorph
  player characters, as they can ride along in some-
  one's head and participate in team affairs with-
  out needing a morph of their own.                 ■



They may also download into biomorph bodies ac-
cording to standard resleeving rules (p. 271). Even
when disembodied, they may interact with the
physical world via the mesh, viewing through sensors,
streaming XP feeds, communicating with characters,
commanding slaved devices, and teleoperating/jam-
ming drones.
   Infomorphs have a Speed of 3, reflecting their digi-
tal nature and their ability to act at electronic speeds.
If an infomorph sleeves into a body, however, it takes
on the Speed of that morph.

AGI CHARACTERS
Though AGIs were not born in a biological body, their
programming encompasses the full spectrum of human
personality, outlook, emotions, and mental states. AGIs
are in fact raised in a manner similar to human chil-
dren, so that they are socialized much like humans are.
Nevertheless, on a fundamental level they are non-hu-
mans programmed to act human. There are inevitably
points where the programming does not mask or alter
the fact that AGIs often possess or develop personality
traits and idiosyncrasies that are quite different from
human norms and often outright alien.
   Unlike standard crippled AIs, AGIs are capable of
full-fledged creativity, learning, and self-improvement
(at a slow but steady pace equivalent to humans). Just
like other characters, they earn Rez points and may
improve their skills and capabilities. AGIs suffer none
of the skill limitations placed on weak AIs, using skills
just like any other character.
   On an emotional level, AGIs run emotional subrou-
tines that are comparable to biological human emo-
tions. AGIs are, in fact, programmed to have empathy
and share an interest in human affairs and prosperity,
and to place significant relevance on life of all kinds.
In game terms, AGIs emote like humans (and so Kine-
sics may be used against them) and are vulnerable to
emotionally manipulative effects, fear, etc.
