%%% 220.txt %%%
 emona: Glad to have you back. I hope                of the other strains. Though infection        computation or perhaps hypercomputa-
 a pleasant farcast from Pelion and don't            still has other drawbacks, Firewall and       tion. This enhances the async's mental
much lack. While you were out, a message             other agencies have come to regard            capabilities to the level provided by
neas with a precis on psi, extracted from            this strain as “safe” in the sense that       modern implants and neuro-mods—and
morph backup of psigeneticist Daborva                the subject does not transmogrify into        sometimes beyond. This does not explain
 Dipole Research Station on Ganymede),               something else and their general person-      the capabilities of other asyncs, however,
uted for distribution to your Firewall node.         ality remains intact. Intrigued that this     especially those used to read or affect
                                                     avenue of inquiry might lead to a way         other biological minds. These abilities
       Coined by the biologist Bertold P. Wiesner,   to nullify the effects of other Exsurgent     seem to involve reading brain waves
       “psi” was originally an umbrella term         strains, Firewall and others continue         from a short range or affecting another's
       used to describe a number of so-called        to experiment with the strain with the        mind via direct physical contact with the
       “psychic” abilities and other speculative     cooperation of willing test subjects (or      target's bio-electric fields. Of course I can
       paranormal phenomena such as telepa-          according to some reports, unwilling          only speculate in accordance with what
       thy and extra-sensory perception. While       victims in the case of certain authorities    Firewall has uncovered—it is quite pos-
       the term was used extensively in the          and hypercorps).                              sible that certain hypercorps or other fac-
       field of parapsychology and pop culture                                                      tions have made further breakthroughs,
       in the twentieth and early twenty-first        THE NATURE OF PSI                             but are keeping the information to
       centuries, the study of psi was largely          Labeled the Watts-MacLeod strain           themselves.
       considered a pseudoscience with flawed         after the researchers who isolated it,           The initiation and use of psi talents
       methodologies and gradually lost funding      further study has gained insight into         is generally understood to take place on
       and support.                                  the effect this virus has on transhu-         a subconscious level, meaning that the
          During the Fall, however, repeated         man brains. Careful analysis of infected      async is not actively aware of the funda-
       rumors and accounts of unexplained            subjects discovered that their altered        mental processes that fuel the psi-waves.
       phenomenon drew the attention of              synapses generate a modulated brain-          Training in certain skills, however, allows
       scientists, military leaders, and singular-   wave pattern that is extremely difficult       an async to focus on certain tasks and
       ity seekers alike. Numerous nanovirii had     to detect. Those “in-the-know” have           psi abilities. These are called “sleights:”
       been unleashed upon transhumanity,            come to refer to these asynchronous           mnemonic or cognitive algorithms of psi
       racing through populations and trans-         brainwaves as “psi waves,” fitting with        use rooted in the async's ego.
       forming as they spread. Some inflicted         the Greek letter designation of other            The percentage of the transhuman
       only minor biological or mental changes       brainwaves (alpha, beta, delta, gamma,        population believed to have contracted
       and impairments, but many were vicious        theta). Likewise, affected individuals are    the Watts-MacLeod strain remains sta-
       and deadly. The most feared variants,         known as “asyncs.”                            tistically insignificant—less than .001%
       however, were those that Firewall has            Exploration of the explicit causal fac-    of the population. The vast number of
       come to label as the Exsurgent virus—a        tors behind psi waves remains stymied.        asyncs have been recruited by various
       transformative nano-plague that mutates       Theories regarding extraordinary mental       agencies, “disappeared” for study, or
       its victims and subverts them to its will.    processes with the ability to change          simply eliminated as a potential threat.
       The Exsurgent virus was also observed         quantum states have been explored but            Ten years after the Fall, Firewall and
       to radically modify the subject's neural      remain frustratingly inconclusive. Neu-       other agencies have come to regard
       patterns and mental state, affecting syn-     roimaging and mapping have enabled            Watts-MacLeod infection as com-
       aptic arrangement and even modulating         scientists to pinpoint structures within      paratively safe, though we remain quite
       synaptic currents. These changes alter        the brain, neural activity, and perturba-     wary of unforeseen side effects or other
       and enhance the victim's cognition and        tions in the brain's bioelectric field that    hidden dangers. Most of us engaged in
       seemed to endow an ability to sense and       are associated with psi processes, but        studying the phenomenon now consider
       even affect the minds of others from a        attempts to duplicate these features          asyncs to be useful as a tool for fighting
       short distance—an ability dubbed “psi”        in non-infected brains have resulted in       the Exsurgent virus and other threats—
       as the causal factors continue to mystify     failure or worse. Attempts to identify        despite the protests of those who are
       us. The existence and nature of this phe-     asyncs by psi brainwave patterns are not      convinced that asyncs are not in control
       nomenon remains carefully concealed           even assured of success. Numerous dead        of their own minds and are not to be
       and under wraps in controlled habitats,       ends have prompted many researchers to        trusted. As of yet we have encountered
       so as not to trigger widespread panic.        postulate that the mechanics underlying       no cases of Watts-MacLeod infection
       Among anarchist and other open com-           psi are simply too strange and too far        that have inflicted anything other than
       munities, knowledge of psi is more wide-      beyond transhumanity's understanding          psi abilities, though there seems to be
       spread, but details are vague and reports     of physical sciences—perhaps reinforc-        an increased risk for asyncs to succumb
       are generally greeted with skepticism.        ing theories that the Exsurgent virus is in   to other Exsurgent strains should they
          The Exsurgent virus is exceptionally       fact of alien origin.                         encounter them. There are other risks as-
       mutable and adaptive, however, and two           One leading speculation is that the        sociated with Watts-MacLeod infection,
       argonaut researchers who were aware of        changes wrought in the mind by infec-         such as extreme fatigue and even lethal
       and studying it soon made an interesting      tion actually entangle some of the            biofeedback resulting from extensive use
       discovery. One variant strain of the virus    neural sub-systems, enable some sort of       of psi sleights and a statistically likeli-
       was found that endowed the subject            quantum field within the brain, or pos-        hood of developing mental disorders due
       with exceptional mental abilities without     sibly create Bose-Einstein condensates        to the increased mental stress placed on
       engaging the transformative process           within the brain, allowing for quantum        the async's mind.
%%% 221.txt %%%
ÆTHER JABBER: ASYNCS
           # Start Æther Jabber #                                  1
                                                                       All right. I can't say that I'll trust her,   2
                                                                                                                             I've heard from several of
           # Active Members: 2 #                                       but I'll try and give her the benefit of               asyncs directly. The fact is, in
                                                                       the doubt. I'll be damned if I'm going                rewrites their brain, and so
               1
                   Sorry to bother you, but my muse just               to trust an async that's not vouched                  them came out the other side
                   alerted me to this excerpt that was                 for by Firewall though—who knows                      fundamentally altered. Eithe
                   sent around to my Firewall team. Is                 what the hell a hypercorp like Skin-                  felt like a different person, o
                   this for real? I've heard the talk about            thetic might be cooking up in their                   felt like there was somethin
                   psi before—enough to be convinced                   black labs.                                           that was part of them—som
                   that there's something to it, even          2
                                                                       That seems like a wise choice.                        that they didn't necessarily lik
                   if we can't explain it—but this bit             1
                                                                       Maybe you can put my mind at ease                     described it as presence, ano
                   about variant Exsurgent infection is                by explaining to me in a bit more                     a black void that whispered a
                   too much. Are we seriously going to                 detail how Watts-MacLeod infection                    Yet another described it as g
                   be working with someone who's a                     occurs.                                               personality to their unconsciou
                   known carrier? And can you shed any         2
                                                                       Well, like the other Exsurgent strains                which only made the gulf be
                   more light on how asyncs do their                   you are unfortunately familiar with,                  unconscious and conscious m
                   mojo? I'm worried now. And since                    the primary transmission vector is a                  the more intimidating. Some o
                   you are connected to the Medeans, I                 nanovirus, but we speculate that it                   preferred to suicide and reve
                   thought I'd take the chance and ask.                may also be transmitted as a digital                  pre-infection backup. While th
           2
                   Well, as to the Medeans ... that's his-             computer virus or possibly even as                    be more prone to cracking u
                   tory. I am back on the freelancing market           a basilisk hack. The physical plague                  result, I haven't ever heard o
                   right now. But no problem, I'll try and             form is spread by highly-advanced                     about their abilities as som
                   explain. I know it is not easy to grasp.            techno-organic nanobots that infect                   they couldn't control.
               1
                   Shiny.                                              a biomorph and use bio-mimicry                    1
                                                                                                                             Well, that's fucking cheery.
           2
                   Yes, Srit was once infected with a                  mechanisms to pass as normal cells                    nothing else we have on how
                   strain of the Exsurgent virus, probably             and penetrate the blood-brain bar-                    stuff actually works?
                   on Mars near the end of the Fall. I say             rier and central nervous system. The          2
                                                                                                                             Unfortunately, we don't. Ev
                   “was” because the Watts-MacLeod                     nanobots are several steps beyond                     Prometheans haven't been
                   strain seems to go dormant shortly                  anything our technology can produce,                  help. There are theories, of cou
                   after it finishes rewiring the victim's              are very difficult to detect, and can                  nothing that we've been able t
                   brain; the plague nanobots die off and              overwhelm most defensive counter-                     with rigorous experimentat
                   get flushed out of the system, unlike                measures. Infected minds are essen-                   doesn't help that the factions t
                   other Exsurgent strains, which con-                 tially rewired, and these changes will                aware of psi's existence don't
                   tinue to stick around and transform                 be copied when the ego is uploaded.                   compare notes—they're all to
                   the subject. At least, that's the domi-             Synthmorphs and infomorphs remain                     looking into ways to weapo
                   nant theory—I've also seen some                     immune to this nano-infection, but                    and use it against each other,
                   speculation that async minds might                  they are theoretically vulnerable to                  of figuring out how to use it
                   be modified so that they continue to                 other transmission vectors.                           benefit of transhumanity.
                   produce bio-nanobots that linger in             1
                                                                       I've heard that synthmorphs are effec-            1
                                                                                                                             Of course. The TITANs didn't
                   the brain, though what function these               tively invulnerable to psi as well. This              but we can still get ourselves.
                   serve remains unclear. However, the                 true?                                                 ries me that the best we've co
                   prevailing opinion among our best           2
                                                                       Yes. As far as we can tell, async                     with is nothing.
                   neuroscientists is that people like Srit            abilities only effect biological              2
                                                                                                                             It's important to keep persp
                   are safe and non-infectious once the                minds—either their own or others.                     Transhumanity has come q
                   virus has run its course. I'll even go              And they can only read/affect others                  distance and made some imp
                   a bit further and say that prevailing               from a very short distance, requiring                 accomplishments, but our unde
                   opinion is that they can be trusted,                physical contact in most cases. The                   ing of the universe is still in its
                   assuming they don't catch another                   half-biological minds of pods are also                What we may be facing here is
                   infection ... which they unfortunately              vulnerable, though to a lesser extent.                thing concocted by an intellige
                   seem to be a bit prone too. Not every-              Likewise, asyncs need a biological                    far beyond our own that we
                   one agrees of course, but we have an                brain to use their abilities—they                     insignificant insects in comp
                   abundance of paranoia in our circles.               can't use their psi if sleeved in a syn-              It likely has a grasp on the u
                   So far, we haven't seen any evidence                thmorph and have difficulty in a pod.                  that is simply beyond our ab
                   that any of our asyncs have been                1
                                                                       Interesting. So, I have to ask again—                 understand. We shouldn't be
                   turned by that initial infection, and the           you're sure she's safe? I've heard                    and think that we can deciph
                   utility and usefulness of having psi-               that some of these asyncs can be real                 mystery thrown at us ... we
                   actives on our side has simply been                 nut-jobs.                                             instead be very, very afraid.
                   too important to push aside.
%%% 222.txt %%%
MIND HACKS■MIND HACKS■MIND HAC



 HACKS
  Though neuroscience has ascended to impressive
  pinnacles, allowing minds to be thoroughly scanned,
  mapped, and emulated as software, the transhuman
  brain remains a place that is complicated, not fully
  understood, and thoroughly messy. Despite a preva-
  lence of neural modifications, meddling with the seat
  of consciousness remains a tricky and hazardous
  procedure. Nevertheless, psychosurgery—editing the
  mind as software—remains common and widespread,
  sometimes with unexpected results.
     Likewise, even as the knowledge of neuroscientists
  grows on an exponential basis, some are discovering
  that minds are far more mysterious than they had ever
  imagined. During the Fall, scattered reports of “anom-
  alous activity” by individuals infected by one of the
  numerous circulating nanoplagues were discounted
  as fear and paranoia, but subsequent investigations
  by black budget labs has proven otherwise. Now, top-
  level confidential networks whisper that this infection
  inflicts intricate changes in the victim's neural network
  that imbue them with strange and inexplicable abili-
  ties. The exact mechanism and nature of these abilities
  remains unexplained and outside the grasp of modern
  transhuman science. Given the evidence of a new
  brainwave type and the paranormal nature of this
  phenomenon, it is loosely referred to as “psi.”



  PSI
  In Eclipse Phase, psi is considered a special cognitive
  condition resulting from infection by the mutant—and
  hopefully otherwise benign—Watts-Macleod strain
  of the Exsurgent virus (p. 367). This plague modifies
  the victim's mind, conferring special abilities. These
  abilities are inherent to the brain's architecture and
  are copied when the mind is uploaded, allowing the
  character to retain their psi abilities when changing
  from morph to morph.

  PREREQUISITES
  To wield psi, a character must acquire the Psi trait (p.
  147) during character creation. It is theoretically also
  possible to acquire the use of psi in game via infec-
  tion by the Watts-MacLeod strain; see The Exsurgent
  Virus, p. 362.
     Psi ability is considered an innate ability of the
  ego and not a biological or genetic predisposition of
  the morph. While psi researchers do not understand
  how it is possible to transfer this ability via uploads,
  backups, and farcasting, it has been speculated that
  all components of an async's ego are entangled on a
  quantum level, or that they possess the ability to en-
  tangle themselves or form a unique conformation or
  alignment as a whole even after they have been copied,
  up-, or downloaded. This speculated entanglement
■MIND HACKS■MIND HACKS■MIND H

                                                             8


 process is also thought to be the origin of the impair-
 ment that asyncs experience when adapting to a new
 morph (see below).

 MORPHS AND PSI
 Asyncs require a biological brain to draw on their
 abilities (the brains of uplifted animals count). An
 async whose ego is downloaded into an infomorph or
 fully computerized brain (synthmorphs) has no access
 to their abilities as long they remain in that morph.
   Asyncs inhabiting a pod morph may use psi, but
 their abilities are restricted as pod brains are only
 partly biological. Pod-morphed asyncs suffer a –30
 modifier on all tests involving the use of psi sleights
 and the impact from using sleights would be doubled.

 MORPH ACCLIMATIZATION
 Async minds undergo extra difficulty adjusting to new
 morphs. For 1 day after the character has resleeved,
 they will suffer the effects of a single derangement
 (p. 210). The gamemaster and player should choose a
 derangement appropriate to the character and story.
 Minor derangements are recommended, but at the
 gamemaster's discretion moderate or major derange-
 ments may be applied. No trauma is inflicted with
 this derangement.

 MORPH FEVER
 Asyncs find it irritating and traumatizing to endure life
 as an infomorph, pod, or synthmorph for long periods
 of time. This phenomenon, known as morph fever,
 might cause temporary derangements and trauma to
 the asyncs' ego, possibly even to the grade of perma-
 nent disorders. If stored or held captive as an active
 infomorph (i.e. not in virtual stasis), the async might
 go insane if not psychologically aided by some sort of
 anodyne program or supporting person during storage.
   In game terms, asyncs take 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up)
 points of mental stress damage per month they stay
 in a pod, synthmorph or infomorph form without
 psychological assistance by a psychiatrist, software,
 or muse.

 PSI DRAWBACKS
 There are several drawbacks to psi ability:

- The variant Exsurgent strain that endows psi ability
  rewires the character's brain. An unfortunate side
  effect to this change is that asyncs acquire a vulner-
  ability to mental stress. Reduce the async's Trauma
  Threshold by 1.
- The mental instability that accompanies psi infec-
  tion also tends to unhinge the character's mind.
  Asyncs acquires one Mental Disorder negative trait
  (p. 150) for each level they have of the Psi trait
%%% 223.txt %%%
  without receiving any bonus CP. The gamemaster
  and player should agree on a disorder appropriate
  to the character. This disorder may be treated over
  time, according to normal rules (see Mental Healing
  and Psychotherapy, p. 215).
- Characters with the Psi trait are also vulnerable to
  infection by other strains of the Exsurgent virus.
  The character suffers a –20 modifier when resisting
  Exsurgent infection (p. 362).
- Critical failures when using psi tend to stress the
  async's mind. Each time a critical failure is rolled
  when making a sleight-related test, the async suffers
  a temporary brain seizure. They suffer a –30 modi-
  fier and are incapable of acting until the end of the
  next Action Turn. They must also succeed in a WIL
  + COG Test or fall down.

PSI SKILLS AND SLEIGHTS
Transhuman psi users can manipulate their egos and
otherwise create effects that can often be neither
matched nor mimicked by technological means. To use
these abilities, they train their mental processes and
practice cognitive algorithms called sleights, which
they can subconsciously recall and use as necessary.
Sleights fall into two categories: psi-chi (cognitive
enhancements, p. 223) and psi-gamma (brainwave
reading and manipulation, p. 225). Psi-chi sleights are
available to anyone with the Psi trait (p. 147), but psi-
gamma sleights are only available to characters with
the Psi trait at Level 2. In order to use these sleights,
the async must be skilled in the Control (p. 178), Psi
Assault (p. 183), and/or Sense skills (p. 184), as ap-
propriate to each sleight.

ROLEPLAYING ASYNCS
Any player who chooses to play an async should keep
the origin of their abilities in mind: Watts-MacLeod
strain infection. The character may not be aware of
this source, but they undoubtedly know that they un-
derwent some sort of transformation and have talents
that no one else does. If unaware of the infection, they
have likely learned to keep their abilities secret lest
they be ridiculed, attacked, or whisked away to some
secret testing program. Learning the truth about their
nature could even be the starting point of a campaign
and/or their introduction to Firewall. If they know the
truth, however, the character must live with the fact
that they are the victim of a nanoplague likely spread
by the TITANs that may or may not lead to complica-
tions, side effects, or other unexpected revelations in
their future.
   Gamemasters and players should make an effort
to explore the nature of this infection and how the
character perceives it. As noted previously, asyncs are
often profoundly-changed people. The invasive and
alien aspect of their abilities should not be lost on
them. For example, an async might conceive of their
psi talents as a sort of parasitic entity, living off their
sleights, or they might feel that using these powers
puts them in touch with some sort of fundamental
substrate of the universe that is weird and terrifying.
Alternately, they could feel as if their personality was
melded with something different, something that
doesn't belong. Each async is likely to view their situ-
ation differently, and none of them pleasantly.

USING PSI
Using psi—i.e., drawing on a certain sleight to pro-
cure some kind of effect—does not always require a
test. Each sleight description details how the power
is used.

ACTIVE PSI
Active psi sleights must be “activated” to be used.
These sleights usually require a skill test. Sleights that
target other sentient beings or life forms are always
Opposed Tests, while others are handled as Success
Tests. The level of concentration required to use these
sleights varies, and so may call for a Quick, Complex,
or Task Action. Active sleights also cause strain (p.
223) to the async. Most psi-gamma sleights fall into
this category.

PASSIVE PSI
Passive psi sleights encompasses abilities that are con-
sidered automatically active and subconscious. They
rarely require an action to be activated and require
no effort or strain by the psi user. Passive sleights typi-
cally add bonuses to various activities or allow access
to certain abilities rather than calling for some kind of
skill test. Most psi-chi sleights fall into this category.

PSI RANGE
Sleights have a Range of either Self, Touch, or Close.
   Self: These sleights only affect the async.
  Touch: Sleights with a Touch range may be used
against other biological life, but the async must have
physical contact with the target. If the target avoids
being touched, this requires a successful melee attack,
applying the touch-only +20 modifier. This attack
does not cause damage, and is considered part of the
same action as the psi use.
   Close: Close sleights involve interaction with other
biological life from a short distance. The optimal dis-
tance is within 5 meters. For each meter beyond that,
apply a –10 modifier to the test.
   Psi vs. Psi: Due to the nature of psi, sleights are
more effective against other psi users. Sleights with
a range of Touch may be used from a Close range
against another async. Likewise, a sleight with a Close
range may be used at twice the normal distance (10
meters) when wielded on another async.

TARGETING
Synthmorphs, bots, and vehicles may not be targeted
by psi sleights, as they lack biological brains. Pods—
with brains that are half biological and half com-
puter—are less susceptible and receive a +30 modifier
%%% 224.txt %%%
when defending against psi use. Note that infomorphs
may never be targeted by psi sleights as psi is not ef-
fective within the mesh or simulspace.
   Multiple Targets: An async may target more than
one character with a sleight with the same action, as
long as each of them can be targeted via the rules
above. The psi character only rolls once, with each of
the defending characters making their Opposed Tests
against that roll. The psi character suffers strain (p.
223) for each target, however, meaning that using psi
on multiple targets can be extremely dangerous.
   Animals and Less Complex Life Forms: Psi works
against any living creature with a brain and/or
nervous system. Against partially-sentient and par-
tially-uplifted animals, it suffers a –20 modifier and
increases strain by +1. Against non-sentient animals,
it suffers a –30 modifier and increases strain by +3. It
has no effect on or against less complex life forms like
plants, algae, bacteria, etc.
   Factors and Aliens: At the gamemaster's discretion,
psi sleights may not work on alien creatures at all, de-
pending on their physiology and neurology. If it does
work, it is likely to suffer at least a –20 modifier and
+1 strain.

OPPOSED TESTS
Psi that is used against another character is resisted
with an Opposed Test. Defending characters resist with
WIL x 2. Willing characters may choose not to resist.
Unconscious or sleeping characters cannot resist.
   If the psi-wielding character succeeds and the de-
fender fails, the sleight affects the target. If the psi user
fails, the defender is unscathed. If both parties suc-
ceed in their tests, compare their dice rolls. If the psi
user's roll is higher, the sleight bypasses the defender's
mental block and affects the target; otherwise, the
sleight fails to affect the defender's ego.

TARGET AWARENESS
The target of a psi sleight is aware they are being
targeted any time they succeed on their half of the
Opposed Test (regardless on whether the async
rolls higher or not). Note that awareness does not
necessarily mean that the target understands that psi
abilities are being used on them, especially as most
people in Eclipse Phase are unaware of psi's existence.
Instead, the target is simply likely to understand that
some outside influence is at work, or that something
strange is happening. They may suspect that they
have been drugged or are under the influence of some
strange technology.
  Targets who fail their roll remain unaware.

PSI FULL DEFENSE
Like full defense in physical combat (p. 198), a de-
fender may spend a Complex Action to rally and con-
centrate their mental defenses, gaining a +30 modifier
to their defense test against psi use until their next
Action Phase.
%%% 225.txt %%%
CRITICALS
If the defender rolls a critical success, the character
attempting to wield psi is temporarily locked out of
the target's mind. The psi user may not target that
character with sleights until an appropriate “reset”
period has passed, determined by the gamemaster.
   If the async rolls a critical failure, they suffer tempo-
rary incapacitation as their mind dysfunctions in some
harsh and distressing ways (see Psi Drawbacks, p. 221).
   If a psi user rolls a critical success against a de-
fender, or the defender rolls a critical failure, double
the potency of the sleight's effect. In the case of psi at-
tacks, the DV can be doubled or mental armor can be
bypassed. Alternately, when using Psi Assault (p. 183),
the targeted character may be in danger of infection
by the Watts-Macleod strain (p. 362).

MENTAL ARMOR
The Psi Shield sleight (p. 228) provides mental armor,
a form of neural hardening against psi-based attacks.
Like physical armor, this mental armor reduces the
amount of damage inflicted by a psi assault.

DURATION
Psi sleights have one of four durations: constant, in-
stant, temporary, or sustained.
   Constant: Constant sleights are always “on.”
   Instant: Instant sleights take effect only in the
Action Phase in which they are used.
   Temporary: Temporary sleights last for a limited
duration with no extra effort from the async. The
temporary duration is determined by the async's WIL
÷ 5 (round up) and is measured in either Action Turns
or minutes, as noted. Strain for the sleight is applied
immediately when used, not at the end of the duration.
   Sustained: Sustained sleights require active effort
to maintain for as long as the async wants to keep
it active. Sustaining a sleight requires concentration,
and so the async suffers a –10 modifier to all other
skill tests while the sleight is sustained. The async
must also stay within the range appropriate to the
sleight, otherwise the sleight immediately ends. More
than one sleight may be sustained at a time, with a
cumulative modifier. Strain for the sleight is applied
immediately when used, not at the end of the dura-
tion. At the gamemaster's discretion, sleights that are
sustained for long periods may incur additional strain.

STRAIN
The use of psi is physically (and sometimes psycho-
logically) draining to a psi user. This phenomenon is
known as strain, and manifests as fatigue, exhaustion,
pain, neural overload, cardiovascular stress, and
adynamia (loss of vigor). Though strain has only
rarely been known to actually kill an async, the use
of too much active psi can be life-threatening in some
circumstances.
   In game terms, every active sleight has a Strain
Value of 1d10 ÷ 2 (round up) DV. Every active sleight
lists a Strain Value Modifier that modifies this amount.
For example, a sleights with a Strain Value Modifier
of –1 inflicts (1d10 ÷ 2) –1 DV.
   If the damage points suffered from strain exceed
the character's Wound Threshold, they may inflict a
wound just like other damage (see Wounds, p. 207).


           Matric is investigating a disappearance, so he
           decides to use his Qualia sleight to boost his
           Intuition while hunting for clues. That psi-chi
           sleight takes only a Quick Action to initiate and
           requires no test. Matric's WIL is 25, so the dura-
           tion of this temporary sleight is 5 Action Turns (25
           ÷ 5 = 5). The sleight's Strain modifier is –1, so
           he is facing (1d10 ÷ 2) –1 DV. He rolls a 1, so he
           takes no strain at all!
              Later on, Matric finds himself in a life-or-death
           struggle with a kidnapper. Lucky for Matric,
           they're in a melee, so he's close enough to try
 EXAMPLE




           and touch his opponent. On his Action Phase, he
           makes an Unarmed Combat Test with a +20 mod-
           ifier (for a touch-only attack) and succeeds. This
           allows him to try and use his Psychic Stab sleight.
           He rolls his Psi Assault of 57 against the target's
           WIL x 2 (32). His target is in a worker pod morph,
           however, which is less susceptible to psi, so he
           receives a +30 modifier (32 + 30 = 62). Matric
           rolls a 32 and the worker pod a 64—Matric wins!
           For damage, he rolls 1d10 + (WIL ÷ 10). His WIL
           is 25, so that's 1d10 + 3. He rolls a score a 7 and
           inflicts 10 (7 + 3) points of damage. The worker
           pod screams in pain, suffering a wound from the
           psychic assault.


PSI-CHI SLEIGHTS
Psi-chi sleights are async abilities that speed up cogni-
tive informatics (internal information processing) and
enhance the user's perception and cognition.

AMBIENCE SENSE
       PSI TYPE:    Passive        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self        DURATION: Constant
This sleight provides the async with an instinctive
sense about an area and any potential threats nearby.
The async receives a +10 modifier to all Investigation,
Perception, Scrounging, and Surprise Tests.

COGNITIVE BOOST
       PSI TYPE:    Active         ACTION:    Quick
       RANGE:       Self           DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
The async can temporarily elevate their cognitive
performance. In game terms, Cognition is raised by 5
for the chosen duration. This boost to Cognition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.
%%% 226.txt %%%
DOWNTIME
  PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Task (min. 4 hours)
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION:   Sustained
  STRAIN MOD: 0
This sleight provides the async with the ability
to send the mind into a fugue-state regenerative
downtime, during which the character's psyche is
repaired. The async must enter the downtime for
at least 4 hours; every 4 hours of downtime heals
1 point of stress damage. Traumas, derangements,
and disorders are unaffected by this sleight. For
all sensory purposes, the async is catatonic during
downtime, completely oblivious to the outside
world. Only severe disturbances or physical shock
(such as being wounded or hit by a shock weapon)
will bring the async out of it.

EMOTION CONTROL
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Constant
Emotion Control gives the async tight control
over their emotional states. Unwanted emotions
can be blocked out and others embraced. This has
the benefit of protecting the async from emotional
manipulation, such as the Drive Emotion sleight or
Intimidation skill tests. The async receives a +30
modifier when defending against such tests.

ENHANCED CREATIVITY
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
An async with Enhanced Creativity is more imagi-
native and more inclined to think outside the box.
Apply a +20 modifier to any tests where creativ-
ity plays a major role. This level of ingenuity can
sometimes seem strange and different, manifesting
in odd or creepy ways, especially with artwork.

FILTER
  PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
  RANGE:       Self         DURATION: Constant
Filter allows the async to filter out out distractions
and eliminate negative situational modifiers from
distraction, up to the gamemaster's discretion.

GROK
  PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
  RANGE:      Self          DURATION:   Instant
  STRAIN MOD: –1
By using the Grok sleight, the async is able to
intuitively understand how any unfamiliar object,
vehicle, or device is used simply by looking at and
handling it. If the character succeeds in a COG x 2
Test, they achieve a basic ability to use the object,
vehicle, or device, no matter how alien or bizarre.
This sleight does not provide any understanding of
the principles or technologies involved—the psi user
simply grasps how to make it work. If a test is called
for, the psi user receives a +20 modifier to use the
device (this bonus only applies to unfamiliar devices,
and/or tests the character is defaulting on—it does not
apply to devices the character is familiar with).

HIGH PAIN THRESHOLD
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
   RANGE:       Self        DURATION: Constant
This sleight allows the async to block out, ignore, or
otherwise isolate pain. The async reduces negative
modifiers from wounds by 10.

HYPERTHYMESIA
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:      Self         DURATION: Constant
Hyperthymesia grants the async a superior auto-
biographical memory, allowing them to remember the
most trivial of events. A hyperthymestic async can be
asked a random date and recall the day of the week
it was, the events that occurred that day, what the
weather was like, and many seemingly trivial details
that most people would not be able to recall.

INSTINCT
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:      Self        DURATION: Constant
Instinct bolsters the async's subconscious ability to
gauge a situation and make a snap judgment that
is just as accurate as a careful, considered decision.
For Task Actions that involve analysis or planning
alone (typically Mental skill actions), the async may
reduce the timeframe by 90% without suffering a
modifier. For Task Actions that involve partial analy-
sis/planning, they may reduce the timeframe by 30%
without penalty.

MULTITASKING
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
   RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
The async can handle vast amounts of information
without overload and can perform more than one
mental task at once. The character receives an extra
Complex Action each Action Phase that may only be
used for mental or mesh actions.

PATTERN RECOGNITION
   PSI TYPE:   Passive      ACTION:   Automatic
    RANGE:     Self         DURATION: Constant
The character is adept at spotting patterns and corre-
lating the non-random elements of a jumble—related
items jump out at them. This is useful for translating
languages, breaking codes, or find clues hidden among
massive amounts of data. The character must have
%%% 227.txt %%%
a sufficiently large sample enough time to study, as
determined by the gamemaster. This might range from
a few hours of listening to a spoken transhuman lan-
guage to a few days of investigating inscriptions left
by long-dead aliens to a week or more of researching
a lengthy cipher. Languages may be comprehended by
reading or listening to them being spoken. Apply a
+20 modifier to any appropriate Language, Investiga-
tion, Research, or cod-breaking Tests (note that this
does not apply to Infosec Tests made by software to
decrypt a code). The async may also use this ability to
more easily learn new languages, reducing the training
time by half.

PREDICTIVE BOOST
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
    RANGE:     Self        DURATION: Constant
The Bayesian probability machine features of the
async's brain are boosted by this sleight, enhancing
their ability to estimate and predict outcomes of
events around them as they unfold in real-time and
update those predictions as information changes.
In effect, the character has a more intuitive sense
for which outcomes are most likely. This grants the
character a +10 bonus on any skill tests that involve
predicting the outcome of events. It also bolsters
the async's decision-making in combat situations by
making the best course of action more clear, and so
provides a +10 bonus to both Initiative and Fray Tests.

QUALIA
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Quick
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
The async can temporarily increase their intuitive
grasp of things. In game terms, Intuition is raised by
5 for the chosen duration. This boost to Intuition also
raises the rating of skills linked to that aptitude.

SAVANT CALCULATION
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
     RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Constant
The character possesses an incredible facility with
intuitive mathematics. They can do everything from
calculate the odds exactly when gambling to predict-
ing precisely where a leaf falling from a tree will land
by observing the landscape and local wind currents.
The character specializes in calculation involving the
activity of complex chaotic systems and so can calcu-
late answers that even the fastest computers could not,
including things like patterns of rubble distribution
from an explosion. However, this mathematic facility
is largely intuitive, so the character does not know the
equations they are solving, they merely know the solu-
tion to the problem.
   This sleight also provides a +30 modifier to any
skill tests involving math (which the character is cal-
culating, not a computer).
SENSORY BOOST
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Quick
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –2
An async uses this sleight to increase their natural or
augmented sensory perception (sight, audio, smell,
augmented) by enhanced cerebral processing, grant-
ing a +20 bonus modifier on sensory-based Perception
Tests.

SUPERIOR KINESICS
   PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:    Automatic
    RANGE:     Self          DURATION: Constant
The async acquires more insight into people's emo-
tive signals, gestures, facial expressions, and body
language when it comes time to predict the person's
emotional state, intent, or reactions. Apply a +10
modifier to Kinesics Skill Tests.

TIME SENSE
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1
An async with this ability can slow down his per-
ception of time, making everything appear to move
in slow motion or at reduced speed. In game terms,
this sleight grants the async a Speed of +1. This extra
Action Phase, however, can only be spent on mental
and mesh actions.

UNCONSCIOUS LEAD
   PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:    Automatic
   RANGE:      Self          DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: +0
This sleight allows the async to override their con-
sciousness and let their unconscious mind take point.
While in this state, the async's conscious mind is only
dimly aware of what is transgressing, and any memo-
ries of this period will be hazy at best. The advantage
is that the unconscious mind acts more quickly, and
so the async's Speed is boosted by +1. The character
remains aware and active, but is incapable of com-
plex communication or other mental actions and is
motivated by instinct and primitive urges more than
conscious thought. Though it is recommended that
the player retain control of their character while using
Unconscious Lead, the gamemaster should feel free to
direct the character's actions as they see fit.
%%% 228.txt %%%
PSI-GAMMA SLEIGHTS
  Psi-gamma sleights deal with contacting (reading
and communicating) and influencing the function of
biological minds (egos within a biomorph, but also
including animal life). Psi-gamma is only available to
characters with Level 2 of the Psi trait.
  Most psi-gamma use is handled as an Opposed Test
between the async and the target (p. 222).

ALIENATION
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
    STRAIN MOD: +0             SKILL:    Psi Assault
Alienation is an offensive sleight that create a sense of
disconnection between an ego and its morph—similar
to that experienced when resleeved into a new body.
The ego finds their body cumbersome, strange, and
alien, almost like they are a prisoner within it. If the
async beats the target in an Opposed Test, treat the
test as a failed Integration Test (p. 272) for the target.
This effect lasts for the sleight's duration.

CHARISMA
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Quick
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Minutes)
    STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:   Control
The async uses this sleight to influence the target's
mind on a subconscious level, so that the target per-
ceives them to be charming, magnetic, and persuasive.
If the async beats the target in an Opposed Test, they
gain a +30 modifier on all subsequent Social Skill
Tests for the chosen duration.

CLOUD MEMORY
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Temp (Minutes)
    STRAIN MOD: –1             SKILL:   Control
Cloud Memory allows the async to temporarily dis-
rupt the target's ability to form long-term memories. If
the async wins the Opposed Test, the target's memory-
saving ability is negated for the duration. The target
will retain short-term memories during this time, but
will soon forget anything that occurred while this
sleight was in effect.

DEEP SCAN
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: +1            SKILL:    Sense
Deep Scan is a more intrusive version of Thought
Browse (p. 228), made to extract information from the
targeted individual. If the Opposed Test succeeds, the
async telepathically invades the target's mind and can
probe it for information. For every 10 full points of MoS
the async achieves on their test, they retrieve one piece
of information. Each item takes one full Action Turn to
retrieve, during which the sleight must be sustained. The
target is aware of this mental probing, though they will
not know what information the async acquired.

DRIVE EMOTION
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Touch       DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
    STRAIN MOD: –1            SKILL:   Control
This sleight allows the async to stimulate cortical areas
of the target's brain related to emotion. This allows
the async to induce, amplify, or tone down specific
emotions, thereby manipulating the target. If the async
beats the target in an Opposed Test, they will act in ac-
cordance with the emotion for the duration and under
certain circumstances may suffer from certain penalties
(up to +/–30), as determined by the gamemaster. For
example, an async might receive a +30 Intimidation
Test modifier against a target imbued with fear.

EGO SENSE
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Close       DURATION:   Temp (Action Turns)
     STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:   Sense
Ego Sense can be used to detect the presence and
location of other sentient and biological life forms
(i.e., egos) within the async's range. To detect these
life forms, the async makes a single Sense Test, op-
posed by each life form within range. The async may
suffer a modifier for detecting small animals and
insects, similar to the modifier applied for target-
ing them in ranged combat (see p. 193); likewise, a
modifier for detecting larger life forms may also be
applied. If successful, the async has detected that the
life form is nearby. Every 10 full points of MoS will
ascertain another piece of information regarding the
detected life: direction from async, approximate size,
type of creature, distance from async, etc. The async
will know if the target moves, if they do so during the
sleight's duration.

EMPATHIC SCAN
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Close       DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: –2             SKILL:    Sense
Empathic Scan enables the async to sense the target's
base emotions. If the async wins the Opposed Test,
they intuitively feel the target's emotional current state
for as long as the sleight is sustained. At the gamemas-
ter's discretion, this knowledge may provide a modifier
(up to +30) for certain Social skill tests.

IMPLANT MEMORY
   PSI TYPE:     Active      ACTION:     Complex
   RANGE:        Touch       DURATION:   Instant
   STRAIN MOD:   +0          SKILL:      Control
%%% 229.txt %%%
An async using this sleight can implant a memory
of up to an hour's length inside the target's mind.
This memory very obviously does not belong to the
target—there is no way they will confuse it for one
of their own. The intent is not to fake memories, but
to place one of the async's memories in the target's
mind so that the target can access it just like any other
memory. This can be useful for “archiving” important
data with an ally, providing a literal alternate perspec-
tive, or simply making a “data dump” for the target
to peruse. Implant Memory requires an Opposed Test
against unwilling participants. At the gamemaster's
discretion, particularly traumatic memories might
inflict mental stress on the recipient (p. 215).

IMPLANT SKILL
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch        DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

     STRAIN MOD: +0          SKILL:   Control
Similar to Implant Memory, this sleight allows the
async to impart some of their expertise and implant it
into the target's mind. For the duration of the sleight,
the target benefits when using that skill. If the async's
skill is between 31 and 60, the target receives a +10
bonus. If the async's skill is 61+, the target receives
a +20 bonus. Implant Skill requires an Opposed Test
against unwilling participants. In some cases, the
target has been known to use the skill with the async's
flair and mannerisms.

MIMIC
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Quick
    RANGE:      Close        DURATION:   Instant
   STRAIN MOD: +0         SKILL:   Sense
In a setting where changing your body and face is
not unusual, people learn to recognize habits and
personality quirks more often. The async must use
this sleight on a target and succeed in a Success Test.
If successful, the async acquires an “imprint” of the
target's mind that they can take advantage of when
impersonating that ego. The async then receives a +30
bonus on Impersonation Tests when mimicking the
target's behavior and social cues.

MINDLINK
   PSI TYPE:     Active                 ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Touch                  DURATION:   Sustained
   STRAIN MOD:                SKILL:
                 +1/target after first  Control
Mindlink allows two-way mental communication
with a target. This may be used on more than one
target simultaneously, in which case the async can act
as a telepathic “server,” so that everyone mindlinked
with the async may also telepathically communicate
with each other (via the async, however, so they
overhear). Language is still a factor in mindlinked
communications, but this barrier may be overcome by
transmitting sounds, images, emotions, and other sen-
sations. Mindlink requires an Opposed Test against
unwilling participants.

OMNI AWARENESS
   PSI TYPE:     Active                 ACTION:     Quick
   RANGE:        Close                  DURATION: Temp (Minutes)

    STRAIN MOD: –1           SKILL:    Sense
An async with Omni Awareness is hypersensitive to
other biological life that is observing them. During
this sleight's duration, the async makes a Sense Test
that is opposed by any life that has focused their at-
tention on them within the sleight's range; if success-
ful, the async knows they are being watched, but not
by whom or what. It does, however, apply a +30 Per-
ception bonus to spot the observer. This sleight does
not register partial attention or fleeting attention, or
simple perception of the async, it only notices targets
%%% 230.txt %%%
who are actively observing (even if they are concealing
their observation). This sleight is effective in spotting a
tail, as well as finding potential mates in a bar.

PENETRATION
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Quick
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Instant
     STRAIN MOD: 1 per AP point SKILL:  Psi Assault
Penetration is a sleight that works in conjunction with
any offensive sleight that involves the Psi Assault skill.
It allows the async to penetrate the Psi Shield of an op-
ponent by concentrating their psi attack. Every point
of Armor Penetration applied to a psi attack inflicts
1 point of strain. The maximum AP that may be ap-
plied equals the async's Psi Assault skill divided by 10
(round down).

PSI SHIELD
    PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
    RANGE:      Self         DURATION: Constant
Psi Shield bolsters the async's mind to psi attack and
manipulation. If the async is hit by a psi attack, they
receive WIL ÷ 5 (round up) points of armor, reducing
the amount of damage inflicted. They also receive a
+10 modifier when resisting any other sleights.

PSYCHIC STAB
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION:   Instant
    STRAIN MOD: +0           SKILL:    Psi Assault
Psychic Stab is an offensive sleight that seeks to inflict
physical damage on the target's brain and nervous
system. Each successful attack inflicts 1d10 + (WIL ÷
10, round up) damage. Increase the damage by +5 if
an Excellent Success is scored.

SCRAMBLE
    PSI TYPE:   Passive       ACTION:     Automatic
   RANGE:      Self       DURATION: Constant
Scramble allows the async using the sleight to hide
from another async using the Ego Sense or Omni
Awareness sleights. Apply a +30 modifier to the de-
fending async's Opposed Test.

SENSE BLOCK
    PSI TYPE:   Active        ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch         DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

    STRAIN MOD: –1            SKILL:   Psi Assault
Sense Block disables and short circuits one of the tar-
get's sensory cortices (chosen by the async), interfering
with and possibly negating a specific source of sensory
input for the chosen duration. If the async beats the
target in the Opposed Test, the target suffers a –30
modifier to Perception Tests with that sense equal (dou-
bled to –60 if the async scores an Excellent Success).
SPAM
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch        DURATION: Temp (Action Turns)

     STRAIN MOD: +0            SKILL:    Psi Assault
The sleight allows the async to overload and flood one
of the target's sensory cortices (chosen by the async),
 spamming them with confusing and distracting sen-
 sory input and thereby impairing them. If the async
wins the Opposed Test, the target suffers a –10 modi-
fier to all tests the duration of the sleight (doubled to
–20 if the async scores an Excellent Success).

STATIC
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Close        DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: +0           SKILL:    None
The async generates an anti-psi jamming field, imped-
ing any use of ranged sleights within their range. All
such ranged sleights suffer a –30 modifier. This sleight
has no effect on self or touch-range sleights.

SUBLIMINAL
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch        DURATION:   Instant
    STRAIN MOD: +2           SKILL:    Control
The Subliminal sleight allows the async to influence
the train of thought of another person by implement-
ing a single post-hypnotic suggestion into the mind
of the target. If the async wins the Opposed Test, the
recipient will carry out this suggestion as if it was
their own idea. Implanted suggestions must be short
and simple; as a rule of thumb, the gamemaster may
only suggestions encompassed by a short sentence
(for example: “open the airlock,” or “hand over the
weapon”). At the gamemaster's discretion, the target
may receive a bonus for resisting suggestions that are
immediately life threatening (“jump off the bridge”)
or that violate their motivations or personal strictures.
Suggestions do not need to be carried out immediately,
they may be implanted with a short trigger condition
(“when the alarm goes off, ignore it”).

THOUGHT BROWSE
    PSI TYPE:   Active       ACTION:     Complex
    RANGE:      Touch        DURATION:   Sustained
    STRAIN MOD: –1          SKILL:   Sense
Thought Browse is a less-intrusive form of mind
reading which scans the target's surface thoughts for
certain “keywords” like a particular word, phrase,
sound, or image chosen by the async. Rather than dig-
ging through the target's ego as with the Deep Scan
sleight, Thought Browse merely verifies whether a
target has a particular person, place, event, or thing
in mind, which can be used by a savvy investigator to
draw conclusions without the need to invade the mind
%%% 231.txt %%%
 directly. Thought Browse may be sustained, allowing                        leftovers, and randomly modified by an unlimited
 the async to continue scanning the target's thoughts                       array of life events and environmental factors. Every
 over time. The async must beat the target in an Op-                        mind features numerous mechanisms—cells, con-
 posed Test for each scanned item.                                          nections, receptors—that handle a dizzying array
                                                                            of functions: memory, perception, learning, reason-
                                                                            ing, emotion, instinct, consciousness, and more. Its
 PSYCHOSURGERY                                                              system of organization and storage is holonomic,
                                                                            diffused, and disorganized. Even the genetically-
 Given the reach of neuroscience in the time of
 Eclipse Phase, it is easy to think of the mind as                          modified and enhanced brains of transhumans are
 programmable software, as something that can be                            crowded, chaotic, cross-wired places, with each
 reverse-engineered, re-coded, upgraded, and patched.                       mind storing its memories, personality, and other
 To a large degree, this is true. Aided by nanotechnol-                     defining features in unique ways.
 ogy, genetics, and cognitive science, neuroscientists                        What this means is that though the general ar-
 have demolished numerous barriers to understand-                           chitecture and topography of neural networks can
 ing the mind's structure and functions, and even                           be scanned and deduced, the devil is in the details.
 made great leaps in unveiling the true nature of                           Techniques used to modify, repair, or enhance one
 consciousness. Genetic tweaks, neuro-mods, and                             person's mind are not guaranteed equal success
 neural implants offer an assortment of options for                         when applied to another's brain. For example, the
 improving the brain's capabilities. The transhuman                         process by which brains store knowledge, skills, and
 mind has become a playground—and a battlefield.                            memories results in a strange chaining process where
 Nanovirii unleashed during the Fall infected mil-                          these memories are linked and associated with other
 lions, altering their brains in permanent ways, with                       memories, so attempts to alter one memory can
 occasional outbreaks still occurring a decade later.                       have adverse affects on other memories. In the end,
 Cognitive virii roam the mesh, plaguing infomorphs                         minds are slippery and dodgy things, and attempts
 and AIs, reprogramming mind states. An “infectious                         to reshape them rarely go as planned.
 idea” is now a literal term.
    In truth, mind editing is not an easy, safe, and                        THE PROCESS OF PSYCHOSURGERY
 error-proof process—it is difficult, dangerous, and                        Psychosurgery is the process of selective, surgical altera-
 often flawed. Neuroscience may be light years                              tion of a transhuman mind. It is a separate field from
 ahead of where it was a century ago, but there are                         neural genetic modification (which alters genetic code),
 many aspects of the brain and neural functions                             neuralware implantation (adding cybernetic or biotech
 that continue to confound and elude even the                               inserts to the brain or nervous system), or brain hacking
 brightest experts and AIs. Technologies like nano-                         (software attacks on computer brains, neural inserts, and
 neural mapping, uploading, digital mind emulation,                         infomorphs), though they are sometimes combined.
 and artifi cial intelligence are also comparatively                           Psychosurgery is almost always performed on a
 in their infancy, being mere decades old. Though                           digital mind-state, whether that be a real-time emula-
 transhumanity has a handle on how to make these                            tion, a backup, or a fork. In most cases, the subject's
 processes work, it does not always fully understand                        mind-state is copied via the same technology and pro-
 the underlying mechanisms.                                                 cess as uploading or forking, and run in a simulspace.
    Any neurotech will tell you that mucking around                         The subject need not be willing, and in these cases
 in the mind's muddy depths is a messy business.                            the subject's permissions are restricted. Numerous
 Brains are organic devices, molded by millions of                          psychosurgery simulspace environments are available,
 years of unplanned evolutionary development. Each                          each custom-designed for facilitating specific psy-
 is grown haphazardly, loaded with evolutionary                             chosurgical goals and programmed with a thorough
                                                                            selection of psychotherapy treatment options.


SOLARCHIVE SEARCH: “THE HUMAN COGNOME PROJECT”
                The Human Cognome Project was an                Funded and supported by scientific       the mind-states of healthy individuals for
                academic research venture to reverse         and corporate entrepreneurs and early      treating mental diseases and damage.
                engineer the human brain, paralleling        transhumanist groups, the HCP developed    Though most HCP data is available to the
                in many ways the Human Genome                the fundamentals of digitizing an ego      public, some argonauts claim that certain
                Project and its success in deciphering       and was a major driving force towards      data is held hostage by some hypercorps,
                the human genome. The HCP was a              the first transhumans with elevated        potentially for the development of pro-
                multidisciplinary undertaking, relevant      intelligence and brain capacity. The HCP   prietary mind-altering technologies.
                to biology, neuroscience, psychology,        has also been instrumental in catalog-        After the Fall, the remnants of this
                cognitive science, artificial intelligence,   ing transhuman minds and developing        project were acquired by the Planetary
            THE HUMAN COGNOME PROJECT
                and philosophy of mind.                      databases of “mind patches” based on       Consortium.
%%% 232.txt %%%
   The actual process of psychosurgery breaks down
into several stages. First is diagnosis, which can
involve the use of several neuro-imaging techniques
on morphed characters, mapping synaptic connec-
tions, and building a neurochemical model. It can
also involve complete psychological profiling and
psychometric behavioral testing, including personal-
ity tests and simulspace scenario simulations. Digital
mind-states can be compared to records of people
with similar symptoms in order to identify related
information clusters. This analysis is used to plan
the procedure.
   The actual implementation of psychosurgical al-
teration can involve several methods, depending on
the desired results. Applying external modules to the
mind-state is often the best approach, as it doesn't
meddle with complicated connections and new inputs
are readily interpreted and assimilated. For treat-
ments, mental health software patches compiled from
databases of healthy minds are matched, customized,
and applied. Specialized programs may be run to
stimulate certain mental processes for therapeutic
purposes. Before an alteration is even applied, it may
first be performed on a fork of the subject and run at
accelerated speeds to evaluate the outcome. Likewise,
multiple treatment choices may be applied to time-ac-
celerated forks this way, allowing the psychosurgeon
to test which is likely to work best.
   Not all psychosurgery is performed for the subject's
benefit, of course. Psychosurgery can be used to inter-
rogate or torture prisoners, erase memories, modify
behavior, or inflict crippling impairments. It is also
sometimes used for legal punishment purposes, in
an attempt to impair criminal activity. Needless to
say, such methods are often brute-forced rather than
fine-tuned, ignoring safety parameters and sometimes
resulting in detrimental side effects.
PSYCHOSURGERY MECHANICS
In game terms, psychosurgery is handled as a Task
Action requiring an Opposed Test. The psychosurgeon
rolls Psychosurgery skill against the target's WIL x 3.
Apply modifiers as appropriate from the Psychosur-
gery Modifiers table.
   If the psychosurgeon succeeds and the subject fails,
the psychosurgery is effective and permanent. The
alteration becomes a permanent part of the subject's
ego, and will be copied when uploaded (and some-
times when forking).
   If both sides succeed but the psychosurgeon rolls
higher, the psychosurgery is effective but temporary. It
lasts for 1 week per 10 points of MoS.
   If the subject rolls higher, or if the psychosurgeon
fails their roll, the attempt does not work.
   The timeframe listed for psychosurgical procedures
is according to the patient's subjective point of view.
Since most subjects are treated in a simulspace, time
acceleration may drastically reduce the amount of
real-time such a procedure requires (see Defying Na-
ture's Laws, pp. 240–241).

MENTAL STRESS
Psychosurgery is a modification to the transhuman
mind, and sometimes to the actual person that resides
in that mind. It is unsurprising then that psychosur-
gery places stress on the subject's mental state and
sometimes even inflicts mental traumas.
   Each psychosurgery option lists a Stress Value
(SV) that is infl icted on the subject regardless of
the tests' success or failure. If the psychosurgeon
achieves an Excellent Success (MoS 30+), this stress
is halved (round down). If the psychosurgeon rolls
a Severe Failure (MoF 30+), the stress is doubled.
Alternately, a Severe Failure could result in unin-
tended side effects, such as affecting other behav-
iors, emotions, or memories.
%%% 233.txt %%%
   If a critical success is rolled, no stress is applied at
all. If a critical failure is rolled, however, an automatic
trauma is applied in addition to the normal stress.
   Some psychosurgery conditions may also affect the
SV, as noted on the Psychosurgery Modifiers table.

ROLEPLAYING MIND EDITS
Many of the changes incurred by psychosurgery are
nebulous and difficult to pin down with game me-
chanics. Alterations to a character's personality and
mind-state are often better handled as roleplaying fac-
tors anyway. This means that players should make a
real effort to integrate any such mental modifications
into their character's words and actions, and game-
masters should ensure that a character's portrayal
plays true to their mind edits. Some psychosurgical
mods can be reflected with ego traits, while others
might incur modifiers to certain tests or in certain
situations. The gamemaster should carefully weigh a
brain alteration's effects, and apply modifiers as they
see appropriate.

PSYCHOSURGERY PROCEDURES
  The following alterations may be accomplished
with psychosurgery. At the gamemaster's discretion,
other mind-editing procedures may be attempted,
using these as a guideline.

BEHAVIORAL CONTROL
    TIMEFRAME:   1 week
                 Limit/Boost –10; Block/Encourage –20,
    PM:
                 Expunge/Enforce –30
    SV:         (1d10 ÷ 2, round up)
Commonly used for criminal rehabilitation, behavioral
control attempts to limit, block, or expunge a specific
behavior from the subject's psyche. For example, a
murderer may be conditioned against acts of aggres-
sion, or a kleptomaniac might be restricted from steal-
ing. Some people seek this adjustment willingly, such
as socialite glitterati who restrict their desire to eat, or
an addict who cuts out their craving for a fix.
   Behavioral control can also be applied as an un-
leashing or reinforcement. A companion may desire
to eliminate their sexual inhibitions, for example, or
a hypercorp exec may boost his commitment to place
work above all else.
  A character will simply feel compelled to avoid
a behavior that is limited (perhaps suffering a –10
modifier), but will find it quite difficult to pursue a be-
havior that is blocked (requiring a WIL x 3 Test, and
suffering a –20 modifier). They will find themselves
completely incapable of initiating a behavior that is
expunged, and if forced into the behavior will suffer
a –30 modifier and (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) points of
mental Stress.
   Likewise, a character will feel compelled to pursue a
behavior that is boosted, and will find it hard to avoid
 engaging in a behavior that is encouraged (requiring a
 WIL x 3 Test to avoid). They will have no choice but
 to engage in enforced behaviors, and will suffer (1d10
 ÷ 2, round up) points of mental Stress if prevented
 from doing so.

 BEHAVIORAL MASKING
      TIMEFRAME:   1 week
      PM:          –20
      SV:       1d10 ÷ 2, round up
    Given the ability to switch bodies, many security
 and law enforcement agencies have resorted to per-
 sonality and behavioral profiling as a means of iden-
 tifying people even when they resleeve. Though such
 systems are far from perfect, someone's unconscious
 habits and quirks could potentially give them away.
 Characters who wish to elude identification in this
 way may undergo behavioral masking, which seeks
 to alter and change the character's unconscious habits
 and social cues. Apply a +30 modifier when defending
 against such identification systems and Kinesics Tests.

 DEEP LEARNING
      TIMEFRAME:   Skill Learning Time +2
      PM:          +20
     SV:        1
    Using tutorial programs, memory reinforcement
 protocols, conditioning tasks, and deep brain stimula-
 tion, the subject's learning ability is reinforced, allow-
 ing them to learn new skills more quickly.

 EMOTIONAL CONTROL
      TIMEFRAME:   1 week
                   Limit/Boost –10; Block/Encourage –20,
      PM:
                   Expunge/Enforce –30
      SV:      (1d10 ÷ 2, round up) + 2
    Similar to behavioral control, emotional control
 seeks to modify, enhance, or restrict the subject's
 emotional responses. Some choose these modifica-
 tions willingly, such as limiting sadness in order to
 be happier, or encouraging aggression in order to be
 more competitive. Mercenaries and soldiers have been
 known to expunge fear. Follow the same rules as given
 for Behavioral Control.



        PSYCHOSURGERY MODIFIERS
                                      PSYCHOSURGERY
SITUATION                              TEST MODIFIER       SV MO
Improper Preparatory Diagnosis              –30               +
Safety Protocols Ignored                    +20                x
Simulspace Time Acceleration                –20               +
Subject is an AI, AGI, or uplift            –20               +
